I wish to congratulate the President on his brilliant election to the presidency of the fifty-second session of the General Assembly. This election is both a sign of the respect his country enjoys in the international community and a tribute by the Members of our Organization to his qualities as a diplomat and his outstanding experience in the United Nations system. All of this is, undoubtedly, assurance that efficiency will mark his presidency and a guarantee that the work of the session will be successful. My delegation would also like to express its full gratitude and congratulations to Mr. Udovenko’s predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia, for his outstanding, imaginative and effective work, in particular regarding his numerous initiatives — especially the initiative that gave a decisive impetus to the reform of the Security Council. 25 The Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, has, in a very short space of time, done considerable work, in particular in the area of reform. The results of this work will bring a new perspective to the work and objectives of our Organization. I must tell this Assembly that my sorrow is great because so many Congolese children, men and women have fallen every day since 5 June 1997, under the crossfire of shells in the civil war that has cast a pall over my country. Therefore, with the indulgence of the General Assembly, I wish to devote my comments to this tragic situation. But what a dilemma confronts me at this rostrum! As a Minister, I might be tempted to paint a picture of propaganda, of oversimplification, of extremism and exclusively of governmental platitudes. The intellectual and the patriot I would wish to be must go beyond diplomatic convention and express what I feel in my heart — my deepest convictions — which are undoubtedly shared by other Congolese of my generation. They feel, as I do, great sorrow for all the victims who continue to fall in the camp of President Lissouba and in that of former President Sassou-Nguesso. And they feel strongly, as I do, that the international community has left them to their own devices to face this tragedy. And yet in my country, which today is in the grip of civil war, almost everything has been done since the sovereign national conference to spare our young democracy from the tragic upheavals inherent in any sudden social change, which in this case consisted of the move from a single-party political regime banning any organized opposition to a veritable explosion of freedoms — individual, political and religious. The Constitution, the charter of national unity and the entire institutional and legislative framework set up since the transition period, which lasted for more than a year, fall within this framework. The holding of transparent, free and fair elections — and in particular the presidential election, which put President Pascal Lissouba at the helm of the State with more than 61 per cent of the vote — was the harbinger of an outstanding future for the process of democratization in the Congo. Moreover, President Lissouba has since his election focused on establishing mechanisms to consolidate our young democracy. In his quest to establish national dialogue and social peace, President Lissouba, immediately following his inauguration, launched an appeal to the opposition to participate in the government of the Republic. That offer, whose purpose was to correct or at least minimize certain constitutional restrictions, was rejected by the opposition. From that point on, for the opposition each lost election became grounds for contention and conflict. This has further distanced it from political power and endangered the future of its own leaders. The war that has brought bloodshed to Brazzaville, our capital, is the culmination of the rejection by one party of our political class to accept the rules of democracy. The seeds of this war can be found in the economic problems and difficulties of the country. Faced with this war, we understand — though of course we do not share — the indifference of the international community to the fate of several thousand Africans, lost in one corner of the globe. The concern of the great economic Powers lies in preserving the richness of the soil and the subsoil of that area, and the lives of its inhabitants mean little to them. But there are lessons to be learned from this indifference. It has caused us to look at ourselves as if in a mirror, in order better to understand the place that Africans really hold in the community of nations. It has also taught us that while patriotism could be a value commonly shared by Africans, the cruel reality of Africa, at least a part of it, is that it counts only for its wealth. So in times of political setback, Africa can expect from the international community only indifference at the outset and condescending judgements later on. Often, and belatedly, the only consideration it receives is to be reminded of the human rights violations perpetrated in wartime by conflicting parties. But that right to judge, which we readily recognize for other peace-loving and democracy-loving peoples, does it not in turn imply a duty on the part of those who, in time of war, stand by silently, failing to provide humanitarian assistance to a people threatened with death and extinction? The people of the Congo, who have, since 5 June 1997, been dying slowly under fire from rockets and cannons — bought by the Congolese, yes, but sold to them by Western “philanthropists” — do they not deserve to benefit from that much-vaunted right to humanitarian intervention? We refuse to believe that, in the framework of our Organization, whose solid, founding values include the principle of justice and equality among peoples, this right to humanitarian intervention, which on a global scale involves an obligation to solidarity and to safeguard life, applies only to certain colours or geographic locations, depending on the colour or the geographic location of the 26 victims. If that belief were to be a certainty, or even to exist, then it would — at least for some of the Members of our Organization — undermine needlessly and in a lasting way the legitimate trust that so many peoples, the innocent victims of atrocities and injustice, have placed in the United Nations. Some Members of this Organization are tempted to say that the Congolese must solve their problems themselves, and we must take this appeal to our sense of responsibility into consideration. Yet while today it is the Congolese people who are hostages, perhaps tomorrow it will be another people’s turn to be taken hostage by a political class that is driven by selfish ambitions, unprepared to accept the rules of democracy and uninterested in seeking and maintaining peace. Every day and at an increasing human cost, the excessive demands of some and the lack of tolerance of others defer to a later date the establishment of conditions for a negotiated peace. That is what happened at Libreville during the second week of September 1997. President Pascal Lissouba agreed with President Omar Bongo, President of the international mediation committee, on a plan for the country to be run by a presidential college composed of the incumbent President of the Republic and three Vice-Presidents. But many Congolese saw in this proposal an effort at power-sharing among those individuals vying for power in the Congo and, hence, an end to the war. Unfortunately, their hopes were dashed as a nightmare scenario unfolded. In response to this proposal from the international mediation committee, the United Democratic Forces of former President Sassou-Nguesso demanded that the First Vice-President be one of their own and that he exercise also the functions of Prime Minister of Minister of Defence. Such a demand, in view of the political history of our country, marked as it is by numerous coups d’état that to this day still have supporters, could not be accepted by the Government nor by the other parties of the most representative opposition. Following that refusal by former President Sassou- Nguesso, a new Government was formed. Mr. Bernard Kolélas, Mayor of the city of Brazzaville and leader of the opposition, was appointed head of that new Government. Several ministerial posts were reserved for the former single party, the Congolese Labour Party of former President Sassou-Nguesso. To date, this effort to join the Government has also been rejected by the armed opposition. What is to be done? The Government continues to believe in the virtue of dialogue and not in the force of weapons. That is why it continues to hope that the efforts of the International Mediation Committee will offer the Congo a chance for lasting peace, and for a transition managed jointly by the various political forces of the country so that our people can freely elect its President. With the goal of finding this negotiated solution, President Pascal Lissouba and Prime Minister Bernard Kolélas recently signed the ceasefire plan proposed by the International Mediation Committee. To date, only Mr. Sassou-Nguesso has not signed. When those who make secret contributions to fratricidal massacres and destabilization in some democratic States, guided by their own interests, invoke the principle of non-interference as a pretext to give them greater freedom to manoeuvre, should we not fear that here non-interference may well become, given the complaisance and the silence of the United Nations, the worst form of interference against these massacred peoples and these destabilized States? Just about a year ago, speaking before this same Assembly, I questioned the relevance of applying the rule of rotation of power in the context of democratization in our countries, which are economically weak and whose political classes have for a long time gained their fortunes and their social ascendancy exclusively from political actions. The events in my country, unfortunately, give greater meaning to this question. We are called upon to understand better our contemporary political history and the need to share power in order to ensure a lasting peace and to better ensure the success of the democratic regime. In the economic and historical context of some African countries, this approach towards democracy, with the development of respect for its basic needs, can be a factor for peace and development, instead of being a factor for destabilization and a vehicle for heightened ethnic hatreds during elections, as in the case today in my country. This is a fundamental question, and undoubtedly my country, today at war, will be able to answer it by finding the road of reason, peace and pursuit of the democratic process. The road leading to democracy in my country, 27 which has for a long time been under the yoke of a single- party regime that flouted freedoms under a quickly abandoned ideology, has been seen as a crossroads by our people. The opposite would have been preferred but surprising, because the single-party regime and totalitarianism cannot disappear without jolts or resistance. Our struggle — that of all the Congolese who believe in the values of democracy, in the development of the human being in a democracy, in the unleashing of greater intelligence and energy in our country thanks to democracy and its regime of freedom will be in vain if the international community — primarily the United Nations — does not show us any sign of the solidarity that could, once and for all, in spirit and in fact, do away with the temptation to resort to weapons to gain power. The Government of the Republic of Congo wishes to express once again its regret and its great compassion to the Government and to the brotherly people of the Democratic Republic of the Congo for the damage and loss of life resulting from the Brazzaville war. We are convinced that the peoples of the two Congos, who have already shed too much blood and too many tears in their history and in their return to a state of law, wish to live in peace together. That is why this situation has shown us how urgent it is for all peace-loving and democracy-loving forces to come to the aid of the Congolese as quickly as possible in order to find a solution to return peace to Brazzaville and to spare the entire subregion the further spread of destabilizing acts and war. We greatly appreciate the commitment of some Governments that, in view of the Congolese tragedy, have made known their readiness to provide troops that could constitute a multinational interposition force, given the procrastination of the United Nations. The wounded and the dead in our own country have helped us better understand and better regret such suffering in the rest of the world. We wish here to express our feeling of solidarity with all other peoples that are suffering, the Algerian people in particular. There again, our hope is that reason will prevail over any other consideration so that Algeria can pursue its economic development. I wish to conclude by affirming that the political determination to restore peace to Brazzaville exists. However, the return to peace is made difficult in the field by the fact that any deliberate or uncontrolled shooting might, at any moment, lead to a further escalation of violence and might endanger numerous human lives. These acts are committed with such ease, irresponsibility and impunity that there is no neutral international force in Brazzaville that can determine who is responsible. We believe that the presence of the troops of the multinational force envisaged by the Secretary-General, which was never established, would have enabled us to move more quickly and more surely towards lasting peace. May our appeal for help be heard, or may it result in greater understanding for future calls of distress. And may my comments from this rostrum resonate within each of us, like an echo in this General Assembly, to spare other African peoples from ever suffering the torments of war or the dictatorship of a handful of lawless and faithless politicians, with wheelers and dealers on all sides who are themselves lawless and faithless.  ﻿It gives me pleasure to extend to Mr. Udovenko our heartfelt congratulations on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session. We are confident that his experience and wisdom will contribute to the successful and efficient conduct of the deliberations of the Assembly and help us achieve our desired objective. I am also pleased to address our thanks and appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Razali Ismail, Permanent Representative of sisterly Malaysia, for the manner in which he conducted the work of the previous session. I take this opportunity to express my country’s appreciation to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his valuable efforts in serving the interests of the international community, strengthening international peace and security and striving to attain the noble principles and objectives of the United Nations. I would like to avail myself of this opportunity to pay tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, former Secretary-General of the United Nations, for the positive and important role he played in carrying out the tasks and responsibilities of the United Nations Secretariat. If we were to define the general trend characterizing the fifty-second session of the General Assembly, we would say it is the great attention paid to the Secretary- General’s report on the financial and structural reforms of the United Nations and its related agencies. This points to the fact that the Secretary-General’s reform proposals are of great significance and not just an ordinary matter. Indeed, they aim at preparing the Organization to usher in the twenty-first century with more vigour and competence, thus enabling it to achieve the noble objectives of the Charter. The Republic of Yemen, in principle, supports these proposals. However, we have to underline certain basic considerations that should not be forgotten or overlooked under the rubric of financial and administrative reforms of the Organization. It is first and foremost necessary to emphasize that the purpose of these reforms should be to reinforce the United Nations ability to shoulder its responsibilities within the framework of the noble objectives for which it was established under the Charter, which we all have accepted and pledged to abide by. As a least developed country itself, the Republic of Yemen expresses its concern regarding some indications in the report that the United Nations role in the field of development may be reduced and its responsibilities limited in the field of social justice and the task of narrowing the huge gap that separates the developing and developed industrialized countries — all on the pretext that some of these responsibilities have been shifted elsewhere. Any move in this direction is bound to encourage certain dangerous phenomena that we have been witnessing of late, including legal and illegal emigration from developing to developed countries, that could sow the seeds of social, ethnic and cultural conflict. Any diminishing of the United Nations role in development will lead to an increase in the population of developing countries, which, in the absence of such basic needs as food, clothing and shelter, could lead to a further deterioration of the environment. For these reasons, we would like to confirm in the name of the Republic of Yemen that the development tasks undertaken by the United Nations and its related agencies constitute an integral part of the main objective behind its establishment: to achieve international peace and security on this planet. 21 With regard to the question of reforming and expanding the Security Council, which has been under much discussion for some time and is referred to in the Secretary-General’s report, we strongly support the expansion of the representative basis of the Council, either by accepting Japan and Germany as new permanent members or by increasing the number of permanent members through an increase in the representation of geographic groups and by allowing each group to rotate its permanent seat among the countries of that group. We support what has been said about the need to reduce the use of the power of veto by permanent members. Indeed, its use should be limited to matters that directly affect the highest national interests. In this way, we can avoid the arbitrary use of the veto power in matters that are irrelevant to such interests, but affect narrow regional calculations or temporary political gains unrelated to issues of international peace and security. It is known to all that our Organization was created in 1945 to implement the principles of its Charter, which stipulates that its main task is to maintain international peace and security, settle international conflicts, protect human rights and the dignity of man and respect the commitments emanating from international conventions and pacts. During the 50-plus years of its life, this Organization has witnessed ethnic and national wars and conflicts as well as rivalries and polarizations that have led to controversies because of what was then known as the cold war between the super-Powers. No one can deny the fact, however, that the wars that raged from Latin America in the west to the African continent and even to East Asia have indeed subsided, thanks to the undeniably worthy efforts of the international Organization itself and of efforts made from outside the Organization, but mostly under its umbrella. Yet, one important question that threatened peace and security in our region even before the creation of this international Organization still constitutes a looming danger to international peace and security. It is the question of Palestine and the Arab-Israeli conflict, with all its complexities. The international Organization has failed to solve this question and has been forced to be a mere onlooker before the various attempts that have been made but have yet to reach a comprehensive, durable and just peace. The displacement of millions, the occupation of their territories, the establishment of settlements, the confiscation of their properties, the arrest of tens of thousands of Palestinians and the violation of their most basic human rights, all of which result from the Arab-Israeli conflict, constitute a flagrant breach of all the noble principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter and a challenge to the resolutions of international legitimacy emanating from the Security Council and this Assembly. We believe that it is the right of all people in general, and of every citizen in the Middle East in particular, to speculate about the secret behind the inability of the international community to tame a State whose population is less than half the population of this city in which we are meeting to adopt legitimate international resolutions. Even more peculiar is that, when a candle of hope flickered and lit the dark fierce night of the struggle that started early this decade — that is, when the world felt some optimism following the announcement of the Oslo agreement, the signature of the Jordanian-Israeli peace agreement and the progress achieved in the talks on the Syrian track to a stage described by President Hafez Al- Assad of Syria as at times encompassing fewer points of divergence than of convergence — after that slim beam of hope, the new Israeli Government came all of a sudden to extinguish it and decided to send the whole region back to square one: conflict and destruction. On the other side of the spectrum of what is being called today the “new world order”, we are all asked, and without exception, to implement the harshest sanctions against the Iraqi people, even seven years after the withdrawal of Iraqi forces from Kuwait. Can anyone tell us which lands the Iraqis are still occupying now and why the Iraqi people should be displaced and deprived of their most basic legitimate rights? Is it not high time for the humanitarian conscience of some of us, particularly the permanent member States, to be awakened and for an end to be put to the sufferings of the Iraqi people? In accordance with its positive stand in support of the peace process in the Middle East, which is in line with the position of the Arab Summit Conference held in Cairo in June 1996, the Republic of Yemen reiterates its commitment to seeing the process for a just and comprehensive peace completed as stipulated by the Madrid Conference, in the resolutions of international legitimacy — particularly Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978) — and in subsequent relevant agreements and protocols, and in keeping with the principle of land for peace. 22 This principle would ensure the complete Israeli withdrawal from all the occupied Palestinian territories; the establishment by the Palestinian people of its own independent State, with East Jerusalem as its capital; the return of the Palestinian refugees; the release of prisoners; the dismantling of the settlements built by the Israeli occupation authorities in the occupied territories in defiance of the resolutions of international legitimacy; and full withdrawal from occupied Golan and occupied southern Lebanon. Furthermore, we affirm that Israel should respect the sovereignty of brotherly Lebanon, should release the Lebanese prisoners and detainees in the Israeli camps, and should compensate Lebanon for all the damages caused by the Israeli aggressions against its peoples and lands. Since it gained its unity and strove to consolidate the democratic direction it has adopted, the Republic of Yemen held the second parliamentary elections on 27 April this year. The elections took place in a free and fair atmosphere, as confirmed by national and international observers. These elections will have positive effects at all levels — national, regional, Arab and international — for they represent a new and advanced turning point in strengthening the democratic direction that is based on a multi-party political system, freedom of the press, respect for human rights, and the institutional consolidation of the modern Yemeni State. Our people is still waging its most important and most difficult struggles to implement the programmes set up by the newly elected Government and approved by the elected house of representatives. These programmes focus on pursuing reform efforts — economically, financially and administratively — and on continuing cooperation with the International Monetary Fund and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In this regard, our objectives are to correct the economic, financial and structural imbalances; to achieve steadiness and stability in the economy as a whole; to activate the role of the private sector in the competitive free-market economy; to achieve sustainable development; to foster stable environments so as to attract foreign investments; to upgrade the basic necessary services of society; and to build the new State and improve the standards of living of all citizens. Following these elections and the formation of a new Government, Yemen has persisted in its efforts in the implementation of the advanced stages of its economic and administrative reform programmes. These programmes have been welcomed by the international financial institutions and by the Brussels conference of donor countries, which pledged $1.8 billion in support of the Yemeni Government’s efforts over the next three years. Our thanks go to all donor Governments and organizations that have manifested their support for and solidarity with the Yemeni people. The British Prime Minister Henry Palmerston is reported to have said that the foreign policy of a country is the reflection and expression of its internal policy. And since economic and social development constitutes the backbone of the internal policy of the Republic of Yemen, the success or failure of the Yemeni foreign policy could therefore be measured by its ability or inability to bring in foreign support in order to realize the main objective of its internal policy. This leads me to say that a country such as Yemen, which mainly depends on foreign aid to carry out its internal policy — that is, its economic, social and cultural development — has to take into account, in seeking the financial and technical assistance needed to achieve the objectives of the internal policy, certain basic considerations that might seem to others supplementary and not mandatory. Allow me to say in this respect that within the parameters of a foreign policy there exists a red line that should not be violated when realizing an internal objective. Most important among these considerations is the need to safeguard sovereignty and not to become mortgaged to others when seeking national interests. Foreign support should not be sought at the expense of the regional and international commitments of the country. Correspondingly, there are also certain basic considerations that are unanimously recognized by the international community which cannot be ignored or overlooked, as this would adversely affect the interests of that country and damage its relations with the international community. Included in those considerations is the need to abide by international pacts and conventions and to respect human rights. Equally, the fight against terrorism and violence in all their forms and manifestations, regardless of their origins or perpetrators and regardless of where they are committed, has become a basic consideration that cannot be overlooked by any country seeking foreign assistance or even mere acceptance by the international community. 23 In a similar manner, the relation between a Government and its citizens has a direct and strong bearing on its relations with the donor countries that are to provide assistance and support. We need not be too idealistic, however, for the requirements of national interest of some donor countries have been placed above those idealistic principles. As a result many countries that have had extremely bad relations with their peoples have still managed to get a considerable amount of financial aid, although this occurred more during the cold war than now. The Republic of Yemen is therefore fully committed to the consolidation of security and stability at both regional and international levels. This can best be reflected in its position regarding its conflict with Eritrea and its endeavours to solve border problems with its neighbours in a peaceful manner. The Republic of Yemen supports the process of a comprehensive and just peace in the Middle East and the principle of land for peace. But, like other Arab countries, it categorically rejects the principle of peace for peace. The Republic of Yemen has condemned all forms of terror, be it terror committed by an individual, by a group or by a State. These are the foundations and the principles of the foreign policy of the Republic of Yemen. At the internal level, the relation between the Government and its citizens is based, as I said before, on constitutional legitimacy; on equality among all citizens, whether male or female; on equality in rights and obligations of men and women alike; on the freedom of individuals and groups; on the freedom of association to parties, trade unions and civilian community organizations; on freedom of the press; and on the protection of human rights. On the basis of its deep understanding of the noble principles of the Charter of the United Nations, the Republic of Yemen is pursuing a foreign policy that is based on mutual respect, positive cooperation, common interests, rejection of violence in international relations, peaceful coexistence, maintenance of security and stability, good neighbourliness, and consolidation of the role of Yemen in attending to the needs of our nation and in standing for the causes of righteousness, justice and peace in the world under the wise leadership of His Excellency President Ali Abdullah Saleh. In this regard we are satisfied with the results of our efforts to improve our relations and to cooperate with our brothers and friends. Here we take pride in having been able to solve the border problem between our country and the sisterly Sultanate of Oman, and to reach a final solution acceptable to both parties. This can be an example to be followed by brothers and neighbours in solving border problems. This is what we are trying to do now with our brothers and neighbours in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. We hope that we will be able to achieve what we all are looking for: to serve the interests and aspirations of our two brotherly and neighbourly peoples and to consolidate stability and peace in the region. With the aim of reaching a peaceful solution that safeguards legal, historical and geographic rights, the Republic of Yemen has endeavoured to avoid escalation and to dissipate tension. It has demonstrated a sincere desire and exerted great efforts both in dealing with the Eritrean occupation of the Yemeni Greater Hanish island in the Red Sea in mid-1995 and all along in the negotiations between the two countries. We did not rush to use force, but rather have sought to pursue all peaceful ways and means. We have opted for dialogue through official mediation and international arbitration in order to save our neighbouring peoples the scourge of war. While the Republic of Yemen expresses its solidarity with the brotherly Somali people, the Yemeni leadership represented by His Excellency President Ali Abdullah Saleh has added its efforts to those of the League of Arab States, the Organization of African Unity and the Inter- Governmental Authority on Drought and Development (IGADD) to achieve peace in Somalia. Just last August, President Saleh received the United Nations envoy to Somalia when he visited to our capital. At that time the Republic of Yemen expressed its special interest in the Somali question and discussed its efforts to find a suitable solution to the conflict in Somalia, not only in view of the historical and social links between Yemen and Somalia, but also in view of the negative effects this crisis could have on our countries and the fact that thousands of Somali refugees have come to Yemen. The Republic of Yemen has affirmed its readiness to cooperate with the United Nations with a view to normalizing the situation in Somalia and enabling that country to become an active member of the international community. Our joint efforts have resulted in noticeable progress in this respect. Our political leadership has 24 received a number of Somali leaders and has sought to solve outstanding differences in Somalia. This is because of our belief in the need to safeguard the unity and territorial integrity of Somalia and to achieve justice and equality among its citizens. From this rostrum we hereby call upon our Somali brothers to take the initiative themselves and to demonstrate a greater political will and sincere desire to find a peaceful solution to the conflict and to attain stability so that Somalis can restore their national institutions and reconstruct their country. In this way it will be possible for Somali refugees to return to their regions and be resettled in their country. We also call upon the international community to increase its effort and to provide the necessary assistance and support to rebuild the State institutions within a framework of national consensus that is acceptable to all Somalis. When we met last year Yemen welcomed the memorandum of understanding that was signed between Iraq and the United Nations in May 1996 to implement Security Council resolution 986 (1995) on the oil-for-food formula, it being the first step to alleviate the sufferings of the Iraqi people. Yemen was optimistic that this agreement, which was reached after arduous negotiations, would be implemented without delay. But we find now that the implementation of that agreement often faces great difficulties, which has compounded the agony of the Iraqi people. The Republic of Yemen, while reaffirming the need for Iraq to implement all the resolutions of international legitimacy and to continue its cooperation with the United Nations, finds it necessary and urgent to alleviate the suffering of the Iraqi people caused by the embargo imposed on that country. This leads me to talk about the air embargo and other measures imposed on the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and about the damages and sufferings inflicted upon the brotherly Libyan people in consequence of this unfair embargo. We would like to affirm our call for an end to this embargo in the context of the resolutions of the League of the Arab States, the Organization of African Unity and the Non-Aligned Movement. Concerning Sudan, my country would like to express its happiness about and support for the new developments and changes regarding the Khartoum peace agreement, which should receive the support and backing of the United Nations and the international community. We in the Republic of Yemen look with much admiration and respect on the way in which democratic elections were held recently in the Islamic Republic of Iran. We congratulate its new President on his election, and we applaud its Government for the approach it has adopted towards the region. However, we call upon our brothers in the Islamic Republic of Iran and in the United Arab Emirates to continue their direct dialogue in order to reach a final and peaceful solution to the question of the three islands, in accordance with the United Nations Charter, the principles of international law and the principle of good-neighbourliness. The maintenance of international peace and security, the achievement of sustainable development and respect for human rights depend, first and foremost, on the political will of the Member States of this Organization. Yet the selectivity used by the powerful Members of the Organization in dealing with others will strip the new world order, whose characteristics are not yet ascertainable, of its humanity and the justice to which we all aspire. Therefore this rostrum and this Organization represent the real safety valve for the security and safety of all mankind. ﻿Allow me first of all, Mr. President, to congratulate you on your election to preside over this new session of the General Assembly. We are sure that the experience you have gained in your years of activity in the Organization, together with your personal qualities and technical skills, will, under your mandate, contribute to the strengthening of this most important body of the Organization. Allow me also to express our congratulations to the outgoing President, Ambassador Razali, for the work he performed, which certainly contributed to the strengthening both of the presidency and of the role the General Assembly is called on to play in the United Nations. Undoubtedly, the central focus of our attention will continue to be the issue of the reform of the Organization, the essence of which is now contained in the document submitted by the Secretary-General. My country fully supports and has every confidence in the appointment and endeavours of the Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan. We have thus paid the greatest attention to the package of reforms he has submitted, and we are prepared to promote deliberations on them so that they can be concluded as soon as possible. 4 We understand that the document is aimed at the objective of equipping the Organization with an administrative structure that will permit more flexible management, prevent duplication of functions and secure coordination among its organs and programmes, all of which will result in an improvement in terms of both economy and management. Within the overall issue of reform, the specific topic of the Security Council is one of the most important because of the political significance that organ has had and will continue to have within the structure of the United Nations. Uruguay endorses an enlargement of the Council because it believes that its structure should be adapted to the new realities in the world, which differ substantially from those that existed when the Organization was established, since at that time account was taken of the power structure resulting from the Second World War. In this regard, we support an increase in the number of both permanent and non-permanent Members of the Council, to a total of not more than 25, so that efficiency is not impaired. Our country particularly supports an increased presence of developing countries to ensure a better balance in the membership of this singular organ of our Organization. We believe that the newly created seats should be occupied on the basis of real equality of opportunity for all States. However, my country believes that the reform of the Council should not be confined to the topic of its membership. Equally important is ensuring that its activities are transparent and that information provided to and communication with the States that are not members of the Council flow freely and are up to date. The Eastern Republic of Uruguay has expressed strong support for progressively limiting the right of veto, and to that end we have submitted a proposal to the effect that on certain subjects, the right of veto could be suspended by the General Assembly by a majority to be determined. That mechanism, essentially democratic in nature, would thus help reduce the absolute power of the right of veto as currently provided for in the Charter, while at the same time it would strengthen the competence of the General Assembly. Nonetheless, our country will be ready to analyse any other proposal that might be submitted aimed at limiting the absolute individual veto. While the reform of the Security Council and the possible revision of the scale of assessments have recently been, and continue to be, the focus of political attention, we should also study the question of strengthening the General Assembly. A calm and dispassionate analysis of the organizational structure and respective areas of responsibility of our Organization shows that the forum where the principle of juridical equality of States reigns supreme is undoubtedly the General Assembly. There has been and still is much discussion regarding the composition of the Security Council and the exercise of the right of veto, in the context of the new parameters of international realities. That is all well and good, but at the same time, we need to find practical ways of revitalizing and invigorating the activity of the Assembly. The General Assembly is a unique body in international institutional machinery. In it, representativity is practically universal. States participate on an equal footing without regard for their size or power, and the ideal of international democracy attains its clearest expression, at least in formal terms. The decisions of this body have great moral and political force and accordingly, it is essential to formulate them better and make them more timely. For these reasons, the General Assembly not only needs to function more flexibly and utilize its resources more rationally, but also, and essentially, requires greater substance. Only thus will we be able to give its resolutions greater operative force. Consequently, we should take a new approach and open a new chapter in the reform process, not confining our reflections and aspirations to reforms of the Security Council or to reforms of a financial nature, but extending them to the organ that brings together the international community as a whole, namely, the General Assembly. After 52 years of the Organization's existence, the maintenance of international peace and security continues to be one of its essential functions. Peacekeeping operations, to which my country is proud to have been a contributor from the outset, must be fully maintained while adapting to new kinds of conflicts. Uruguay is prepared for this, and, accordingly, we reaffirm here once again our commitment not only to continue to make our traditional contribution but also to 5 diversify it in order to adapt it fundamentally to peace- building. In this connection, we welcome the signing, with the Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations, of a memorandum of understanding regarding our contributions to the United Nations standby arrangements system. This will contribute to facilitating the planning of future peacekeeping missions in the shortest possible time. The General Assembly's recent adoption of the resolution putting an end to the use of “gratis personnel provided by Governments and other entities” fulfils one of my country's long-standing aspirations and does justice to the principles of equitable geographical representation and the equality of Member States, both enshrined in the Charter. Similarly, the recent General Assembly resolution adopting uniform and standardized rates for payment of awards in cases of death or disability sustained by troops in the service of the United Nations peacekeeping operations seems to us an important step that puts an end to an unjust situation. We fully support the Middle East peace process initiated at Madrid in October 1991 and continued at Washington, and the Government of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay continues to encourage the necessary holding of direct talks between Israel and the Palestinian National Authority. It is essential for both parties to respect in good faith the commitments entered into in the Madrid and Washington declarations. Our Latin American continent does not want an arms race; it wants, on the contrary, to be free of nuclear weapons and of other sophisticated weapons of mass destruction that can create instability. We want to work in peace, allocating the largest possible amount of resources to our economic and social development. However, this should not be an obstacle to limited purchases of arms by our armed forces solely for the purpose of replacing their obsolete equipment, thereby fully discharging their constitutional mandates. We must work to ensure a continuation of the mutual confidence and security that prevails in the region today, without third countries weakening and taking advantage of our continent through the sale of sophisticated weapons. Uruguay will continue to support with firm conviction all disarmament processes, and, accordingly, we recently signed in Oslo the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines, those lethal weapons that have caused not only death and serious injury to soldiers but also the loss of thousands of innocent lives. Protection of human rights has been and will continue to be one of the priority objectives of both our domestic and international policies. Without full exercise of human rights, there can be neither peace nor security, neither economic prosperity nor social equity, and the existence of a democratic system of government will therefore also be impossible. In addition, there can be no full exercise of human rights without a minimum economic, social and educational base, and my country will be prepared to contribute to ensuring the existence of such a base. In this connection, we fully support the restructuring proposed by the Secretary-General while at the same time endorsing the philosophy on which it is based, embodied in his idea that the question of human rights should be part of all the substantive spheres of the Secretariat's programme of work: peace and security, economic and social affairs, development cooperation and humanitarian affairs. The financial crisis the Organization is experiencing, which has no counterpart in its history, stems primarily from the failure to pay assessed contributions. While not intending to justify any delay in payment, Uruguay believes that the current scale of assessments requires adjustments to make it fairer, more transparent and better based on the capacity of States to pay. That should not, however, mean that developing countries would assume new and additional commitments today; that would, in our view, be unjust and unacceptable. The system of contributions should be based on objective criteria of financial responsibility. We agree that there is a need to correct and manage the budgets of the Organization in order to reduce expenditures and increase efficiency, thus striking a balance between expenditure on peace and security and expenditure on development, each of which is a cornerstone of the other, without weakening operating and information activities. We cannot but express our public satisfaction at seeing the importance the Secretary-General attaches to development, which he regards as one of the priorities 6 and essential functions of the Organization. There can be no peace without development. On the threshold of a century that is already taking shape and that, unfortunately, seems to be marked by growth without equity, uncertainty in employment and a proliferation of crises and conflicts, good management of development assistance is today more necessary than ever before. At a time when human concerns seem to be alien to us, it is essential, in Uruguay's view, to support an Organization that holds that people must be placed at the very heart of the development process if we want growth to be compatible with the human condition and development to be conducted by and for people. In this context, we consider it very important to maintain unconditionally the principle of universality and the right of all developing countries, without exception, to benefit from international cooperation and to receive technical assistance with a view to achieving sustainable human development. Uruguay considers international technical cooperation essential for consolidating the processes of development and integration in the various regions. It is a fundamental tool for attaining greater economic growth. We support the development of South-South cooperation as an important tool for promoting the improved development of nations. We believe that a new concept of technical cooperation will have to respond to traditional demands, such as humanitarian affairs, as well as others associated directly with the process of integration into the international economy, such as, for example, the redefinition of the role of the State, its modernization and its decentralization. We believe that a positive contribution to political and democratic stability and to economic growth is made by processes of regional and subregional integration. In our case, the Southern Cone Common Market — composed of Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and our country — is a clear example of democratic stability and expansion of trade, within and outside the region, compatible with the rules of the World Trade Organization. Uruguay continues to assign to international law a primordial role as a regulator of relations among States. Respect for and compliance with international law are essential for peaceful coexistence. For this reason, we support the holding of an international conference to discuss a draft convention establishing an international criminal court for autonomous and independent hearings on certain crimes, such as genocide and others which, because of their seriousness, are roundly condemned by the international community. We also support the work of the Ad Hoc Committee on the elaboration of a convention for the suppression of terrorist bombings. In times of change, which we all see as appropriate and inevitable in order to revitalize the Organization, we nevertheless identify more than ever before with the essential purposes and principles established 52 years ago. These bind the Organization together and, despite the time that has elapsed and the important changes that have since taken place in the world, continue to constitute and must continue to constitute, today as yesterday, the goal and objective of all the changes the United Nations will have to face at the dawn of the twenty-first century. People, simple people, call for us to be effective and efficient in our activities and bold in our decisions in preventing conflicts, and to act on their behalf in rebuilding civil societies. The citizens of every nation, of every country of the world, call on us today to be firm in our commitment to the Charter and to adapt our new activities to the changing times.  ﻿Mr. President, to you and your friendly country, I am pleased to extend my warmest congratulations on your election to the presidency of this session of the General Assembly. Your expertise on United Nations and world issues will undoubtedly assist you in wisely discharging the work of the General Assembly. At the same time, I wish to express our appreciation to your predecessor for the efforts he exerted in connection with the discussions relating to United Nations reform. The world is currently passing through highly interwoven and complicated circumstances, where progress and its horizons mingle with backwardness and its dangers while humanity takes pride in such achievements as economic progress and the development of technology and informatics, it is still suffering from the practices of terrorism, drug trafficking, organized crime, the spread of corruption, the overflow of refugees, the challenges posed by war criminals, crimes of genocide and mass murder, and the negative effects of racism and religious discrimination. All this gives rise to a situation which requires the international community to cooperate and become interdependent in its endeavours in a manner that helps it live in security and to progress confidently. This cannot take place unless the United Nations become the focal point and the centre of its concerted actions. This prompts us to accord priority in Egypt's statement to this session to the issue of United Nations reform. The outcome of this session, and probably subsequent sessions will constitute a true litmus test of the credibility of determination and the objectivity of resolve regarding the present and the future of the United Nations. Evolution of the United Nations relies on a number of facts and requisites. The principles of democratization and multilateralism are widespread, market economy mechanisms are growing, and scientific progress and information technology are accelerating. This necessitates reaching agreement on and drafting new rules for international conduct. It has been shown that the end of the cold war in no way sufficiently guarantees the non-eruption of conflicts, tragedies and wars. By the same token, the risks emanating from the outbreak of rampant international confrontations have not disappeared. The root causes of national and international disputes still persist. On the other hand, weapons of mass destruction are readily available and are even on the rise. In addition to the absence of any substantial progress in the field of nuclear disarmament, there exist clandestine military nuclear programmes not subject to any international supervision in strategically sensitive areas such as the Middle East region. While globalization is a rapidly growing phenomenon, and given its impact on the security and prosperity of various societies, national legislation and regulations are finding it difficult to cope with this phenomenon and to regulate international relations accordingly. Most of the developing countries do not possess the same capacity as the developed ones to speedily effect the necessary psychological, cultural and legislative adjustments. Therefore, the United Nations represents the proper mechanism for the formulation of an international consensus on the rules governing all these developments, and the provision of necessary assistance to the developing countries to meet and regulate their requirements. While we agree on the need to change the United Nations and increase its effectiveness, we might not be as agreed on the means to achieve that objective. In this context, I wish to state Egypt's view of the main principles and points on which the United Nations reform process should be based, in addition to a preliminary comment on some of the Secretary-General's recent proposals in this respect. It is important that the United Nations reform take place in conformity with the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter and the mandates accorded to each of the United Nations principal organs. The General Assembly, representing the general membership of the United Nations, has to adopt clear decisions which reflect the general consensus with regard to the proposals 13 contained in the Secretary-General's report. Such consensus should be built through serious intergovernmental dialogue characterized by maximum transparency and sense of responsibility. We concur with the Secretary-General's position that reforming the United Nations administrative machinery is not a substitute for the political will of the Member States to enhance the role of the Organization. Thus, the first step towards reform is the formation of a clear collective will to strengthen the United Nations system through a comprehensive approach in the interest of all. While we would generally welcome merging departments with similar activities as well as slashing a number of posts if the General Assembly so decides, we wish to stress that rationalizing expenditures must not be done at the expense of efficient performance. Administrative reform should not diminish the Organization's capacity to fully implement the programmes adopted by the Member States. Nor should it adversely affect the equitable geographic distribution in the composition of the Secretariat. We are also in agreement with the Secretary-General's diagnosis of the real threat facing the United Nations, namely the non-payment by some major Powers of their assessed contributions, be they to the regular budget or to the budget of peacekeeping operations. Since these arrears are part of the Member States' obligations under the Charter, their payment should be made in full, immediately and without conditions. Any attempt to make payment conditional will only complicate the entire reform process. The sharp and steady decline in the resources allocated to development, coupled with the absence of enthusiasm on the part of some for the fulfilment of their obligations, have negatively affected the implementation of many programmes adopted by Member States. This impels us to review the funding modalities of the United Nations operational activities for development so as to ensure their effective performance. We concur with the Secretary-General on the importance of achieving the system-wide integration of United Nations programmes that deal with development. We still look forward to hearing concrete ideas on how to achieve more comprehensive coordination throughout the United Nations system as well as on how to decentralize the working methods of the regional economic commissions. These commissions play a cardinal role in implementing the Organization's priorities, such as poverty eradication. Lastly, some of the other measures proposed by the Secretary-General, particularly those relating to how to address the financial crisis, should be studied further with a view to reaching arrangements which would enjoy general consensus and help overcome this crisis. Therefore, we invite the General Assembly to study the important proposals made by the Secretary-General. The Assembly should then come up with recommendations that clarify the Member States' aspirations and the modalities of implementing their specified priorities in the medium-term plan, together with means of promoting the vital role of the Organization in the coming decades. In the course of reforming the United Nations, the Secretary-General touched upon the elaboration of a new concept and structure of the Trusteeship Council. This is a matter that requires extensive discussion and study to clarify the impact and dimensions of the proposed concept, as it is totally different from the current mandate of the Council. Besides, it is imperative to discuss the significance of, and the need to put under collective trusteeship, topics set forth by the world community in well-established international agreements that express the will of the international community as a whole. Under those agreements, mechanisms and organs have already been set up to oversee their implementation. Also, within the context of changing the role of the Organization, we note that the Secretary-General's proposals entrust the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights with many additional responsibilities and competencies at the expense of the functions entrusted to the Centre for Human Rights. In our view, this is not in line with what is important in the management of the human rights field. Here we recall some recent sagacious appeals for updating the approach and legislation of the international community in the field of human rights in order to better reflect the diverse contributions of various cultures and civilizations in our contemporary world to the promotion and enrichment of these rights and the protection of the freedom of individuals and societies. Although some political considerations stood in the way of including the valuable contributions of some of those cultures and civilizations in the main human rights instruments — foremost among which is the Universal Declaration of Human Rights — these sagacious appeals reflect the desire to enhance the 14 contribution of various world cultures in the protection of human rights. Such enhanced and diverse contributions, in the framework of a world consensus, could spare the international community any accusation of negligence, double standards or bias towards a single cultural concept. In the field of disarmament, I should point out that for 50 years, the United Nations has given due regard to disarmament issues. It has given high priority to matters relating to weapons of mass destruction in general and nuclear weapons in particular. A consensus on this high priority emerged in the first special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament and has been reiterated ever since. Egypt remains faithful to this high priority. I now turn to the Security Council. Past Assembly sessions, especially the fifty-first, witnessed protracted debates on the reform and restructuring of the Security Council. Undoubtedly, reaching agreement on this issue is one of the main pillars on which reform of the United Nations must be built. In this regard, Egypt reiterates its emphasis on and commitment to the key principles adopted at the ministerial meeting of the Non-Aligned Movement in New Delhi, as well as the elements adopted by the Organization of African Unity (OAU) Summit in Harare in connection with the Council's enlargement and the need for full conformity with the relevant provisions of the Charter. Therefore, first, there should be no partial or selective expansion or enlargement of the membership of the Security Council. Secondly, efforts at restructuring the Council should not be subject to any imposed time-frame. While recognizing the importance of treating this issue as a matter of urgent attention, no effort should be made to decide this issue before general agreement is reached. Thirdly, efforts should be made to rationalize the exercise of the veto. Fourthly, the improvement of the working methods of the Council should be given equal importance. Fifthly, any resolution with possible Charter-amendment implications as to the size, the composition or the allocation of the Council seats must be adopted in strict conformity with the provisions of Article 108 of the Charter. Sixthly, it is important to study the principle of rotation and to agree upon the eligibility criteria for it in connection with the proposed expansion in the permanent-membership category. Such an agreement could help avoid the divisions and feuds that have begun to surface. Lastly, if there is no agreement on the expansion of permanent membership, expansion should be limited to the non-permanent category. As to eligibility of States for permanent membership in the Security Council, and with a view to our commitment to what will be agreed upon within the OAU in connection with a system of rotation, we propose that the criteria for eligibility should include the degree of present and future economic development, historical weight, geographic location and size of population. They should also give due regard to the role played by a country in the maintenance of global and regional peace and security, including its ability to contribute to peacekeeping operations. Further, similar regard should be given to such a country's endeavours to preserve the interests of the region to which it belongs. Egypt's regional and international contributions within the framework of Africa, the Arab and Islamic worlds and the Middle East region, as well as among the developing countries and emerging economies, undoubtedly qualify it to shoulder the responsibilities of permanent membership in a new, expanded Security Council providing balanced and equitable representation. However, Egypt will remain committed to the African consensus in this regard. I listened carefully to the statement made by the Foreign Minister of Singapore, and I suggest that the points he raised should be studied and given due attention by the General Assembly and the committees working in the field of the reform and expansion of the Security Council. The non-aligned countries called for a reconsideration of the veto power, which contradicts the principles of democracy that must characterize contemporary world order and prevail both among and within States. As a first step towards that goal, we suggest that the use and scope of the veto power should be restricted to specific actions such as those which relate to threats to international peace and security and which are taken under Chapter VII of the Charter. We can also agree on excluding specific matters from the use of veto power, such as provision to the Council of the information necessary for exercising its competence; humanitarian issues, including respect for instruments of international humanitarian law and ceasefire resolutions; and the selection of the United Nations Secretary-General. Security Council reform and the improvement of its working methods require a re-evaluation of the sanctions regimes imposed by the Council, including their routine periodic review, their lifting and whether the regime in its current form achieves the goals for which it was instituted. If sanctions are intended to influence the behaviour of certain States so that they abide by 15 international legality, it would be only logical to amend the way these sanctions are currently implemented in order to take into account the related humanitarian aspects and the sufferings inflicted upon the peoples. And after compliance, these sanctions must be lifted. In all cases, it is important to consider setting specific time-frames for sanctions so that they do not end up being, in effect, a people's punishment. Discussions in this respect under “An Agenda for Peace” and the initial agreement reached thereon can be a viable basis for starting serious deliberations with a view to effecting positive changes in the current sanctions regime. I turn now to the situation in the Middle East, where the peace process faces a serious crisis. The most apparent manifestation of this crisis is that the concept, principles and bases of the peace process are being completely shattered and squandered. The vision spawned in the peoples' minds of the sort of peace, as agreed upon at the United Nations and in Madrid, has started to dissipate. Trust has been replaced by doubt, and hope by frustration and despair in a tomorrow where justice will materialize and peace will prevail. The peace process is based on governing principles, namely the implementation of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). At the heart of these principles are the land-for-peace formula and safeguarding the rights of the parties according to the balance struck by the Security Council and affirmed at the Madrid Peace Conference. This certainly applies to the three tracks of negotiations between Israel on the one hand and Syria, Lebanon and the Palestinians on the other. The Oslo accord did not deviate from the same principles, nor did it challenge their terms of reference or binding nature. On the contrary, it led to the recognition that the Palestinian people are a people with legitimate national and political rights. It also recognized that the only way to establish peace and security in the region is through peaceful coexistence between the Palestinian and Israeli peoples, based on equality, justice, and, of course, Israel's withdrawal from the occupied Arab territories and the establishment of normal relations between the States in the Middle East. These principles and concepts gave rise to a process of building bases for peace and its possibilities. In spite of the obstacles and the problems which confronted the process of negotiations, the credibility of the search for a peaceful solution of the Arab-Israeli conflict still existed. This quest for peace had become a strategic choice characterizing the policies and orientations of the region's Governments, impelling the peoples of the region to envision a future Middle East under a just and comprehensive peace. Various methods and mechanisms for cooperation which would enable the region to achieve the requisite levels of development and progress were discussed. Despite the frequent diversity of views and their conflicting nature at certain times, that trend represented a healthy phenomenon: it indicated that the peoples of the region are already convinced of the peace concept. The only thing that remained was how to reinvigorate the method of achieving it. Alas, confidence was lost, credibility was shaken and the peace process lost much of its momentum. For this, and for the present serious situation, the current Israeli Government' policy is responsible. Settlement activities, as well as Israel's reneging on agreements and commitments reached; making a mockery of legal accords; challenging the two sponsors of the peace process; pushing for confrontation; and giving rise to an overall feeling of despair could not but result in frustration and destruction. This will lead to a catastrophe whose responsibility, we hasten to underline here and now, lies squarely with the current Israeli policies. This serious crisis inflicted on the peace process by the Israeli policies was recently considered by the Council of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the States members of the League of Arab States. The Council adopted the following points, which constitute a unified Arab position on the current situation. The first point is a rejection of the Israeli Government policies designed to undermine the peace process, its denial of the principles and bases of this process, its evasion of the implementation of the commitments, undertakings and agreements reached within the context of the peace process, and its unilateral measures aimed at imposing a fait accompli in Jerusalem, the West Bank and the Golan, along with its aggression against southern Lebanon. The second point is the upholding of a just and comprehensive peace as a strategic choice and objective on the basis of the principles of the peace process, and in particular of the relevant Security Council resolutions, the principle of land for peace and the attainment of the legitimate political rights of the Palestinian people, and a reaffirmation of complete Arab solidarity with this position. 16 The third point reiterates that Israel's breach of the principles and the bases of the peace process, its backtracking on the commitments, undertakings and agreements reached thereon and its procrastination in implementing these commitments have resulted in the current setback of the peace process. These Israeli policies have also led to a reconsideration of the steps taken towards Israel within the framework of the peace process. Full responsibility for this lies with the Israeli Government alone. Fourth, negotiations on the three bilateral tracks should be resumed. On the Syrian track, negotiations should be resumed from wherever they ended. The two parties should commit themselves to what has already been achieved. On the Lebanese track, negotiations should centre upon the implementation of Security Council resolution 425 (1978). And on the Palestinian track, negotiations should be resumed on the basis of implementing the contractual agreements reached, including the commitments of the interim period. Parallel to that, final status negotiations should start in order to lead to the Palestinian people's exercise of their right to self-determination and to the establishment of their independent state. Fifth, the Council welcomed the American position as crystallized during the visit paid by the United States Secretary of State to the region this month. There was consensus regarding cooperation with United States policy as expressed by Mrs. Albright in her statement of 6 August 1997 to the National Press Club in Washington. That policy, which was reiterated during her recent visit to the Middle East and contacts with the States of the region, reaffirms the terms of reference of the Madrid Peace Conference, in particular the principle of land for peace, the implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions, the realization of the legitimate political rights of the Palestinian people, and the commitment to abstain from taking unilateral measures that undermine the permanent status negotiations. We stress the need to build on this positive position on the part of the United States, and call on Israel to respond positively to it. In this context, the steps that the Israeli Government is required to take to foster the peace process should be within the framework of key issues, not that of issues of a secondary or formalistic nature. Sixth, the European role played in support of the peace process is welcome and the importance of its revitalization should be stressed. Seventh, international legality in the context of the United Nations Security Council resolutions should be upheld and implemented. A stable and just peace must be built on a strong basis of comprehensive security arrangements that take due account of the apprehensions, concerns and viewpoints of all parties. This can materialize only when Israel accedes to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), as it is the only State in the region that has not yet done so. We should proceed forthwith with the implementation of President Hosni Mubarak's initiative to free the Middle East from all weapons of mass destruction and their delivering vehicles. It is a source of regret for us that so far no practical steps have been taken to rid our region of the threat of nuclear weapons. This might lead to the proliferation of such weapons. Consequently, I call upon the General Assembly and the NPT depositories to take the necessary steps to ensure Israel's accession to the NPT and for the prompt undertaking of serious negotiations to establish a nuclear- weapon-free zone in the Middle East, in implementation of the resolution adopted by the Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the NPT held in New York in April 1995. Such a nuclear-weapon-free zone could be established as a first step towards ridding the Middle East of all weapons of mass destruction. Before concluding my remarks regarding the Middle East, I would like to refer to the serious situation in Iraq. I would like to highlight the importance of respecting Iraq's sovereignty and of ending the suffering of its people. Furthermore, the islands of the United Arab Emirates should be returned, and the sovereignty of the United Arab Emirates over these islands should be respected. The Lockerbie issue should be brought to an end in conformity with international legality. The territorial integrity of the Sudan should be preserved and respected. A settlement of the problems of Somalia should be reached. A healthy climate for relations should be created in the Middle East between States of the region and neighbouring countries, based upon mutual and balanced commitments along with a common interest in maintaining positive relations for the benefit of everyone. Turning to Africa, I wish to refer to the ministerial meeting convened by the Security Council last week to consider the sources and causes of African conflicts and how to contain and resolve them. As I said in my statement before the Council, Africa has come a long way on the road of political and economic reform. What is needed now is to revitalize existing international 17 initiatives in support of development and stability in Africa. Such international support is also required to solve the problems of refugees, enhance democratization and strengthen regional and subregional integration. This requires the fulfilment of promises by the international community to establish a true partnership between Africa, on the one hand, and the United Nations system and the international donor institutions on the other. This also requires strengthening existing cooperation between the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity in conformity with the provisions of Chapter VIII of the Charter. Since the dawn of history, the Mediterranean dimension has been an important framework for Egypt, influencing and being influenced by the centres of civilization and enlightenment in the region. Inasmuch as Europe — Eastern and Western — has been the main partner with Egypt in trade transactions, tourist flows and cultural interactions, so has Egypt been and will continue to be a major active party in ensuring stability and regulating a veritable interaction between the European dimension of Mediterranean security and the Mediterranean dimension of European security, in the full meaning of the comprehensive concept of contemporary security. In this context, President Hosni Mubarak in November 1991 presented to the European Parliament his well-known initiative of establishing a framework for consultation and cooperation among the Mediterranean countries. By mid- 1994, this idea was crystallized when the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of 11 Mediterranean countries held in Alexandria their constituent session for the Mediterranean Forum, which convened its fourth session last July in Algiers, where the ministers unanimously agreed that the Forum was a unique gathering for frank dialogue and a mechanism for the formulation and testing of ideas and coordination of positions. Through its chairmanship of the cultural working group of the Mediterranean Forum, Egypt looks forward to contributing to strengthening cultural cooperation among the member countries and stressing the common cultural features of the Mediterranean personality, based upon the integration and interaction of civilizations, rather than conflict and confrontation between them. A similar exercise is currently under way with regard to Euro-Mediterranean interaction, in the framework of the Barcelona process. The second ministerial conference, convened in Malta last April, provided a good opportunity for frankness and an exchange of views to activate and correct the path of this historic process that brings together countries of the European Union and those of the south and the east of the Mediterranean. In so doing, this process will truly lead to the creation of a balanced partnership among all parties, as well as the establishment of a common zone of peace and prosperity in the Mediterranean basin. In this context, Egypt follows with keen interest current developments in the Balkans, a region closely linked to the Mediterranean region, especially with regard to developments relating to the situation in Bosnia. Egypt believes that the only way out of tension in that region is that of international legality, the full and speedy implementation of the Dayton Agreements and the trying of war criminals, which represents an essential step towards establishing justice and stability in this region. Egypt reaffirms its partnership with the international community, the United Nations system and the donor institutions in the development and reconstruction of Bosnia in order to help heal the wounds of years of war and destruction. I should not fail to address the concerns of Egypt and other developing countries regarding a number of challenges accompanying the process of trade and investment liberalization. These challenges are manifested in the continued pursuit by some of unilateral and arbitrary policies instead of abidance by the rules and regulations of the international trading system that we all worked so hard to adopt within the framework of the World Trade Organization. This is in addition to the growing trend we witness today on the part of some of our trading partners who resort to covert protectionist practices, which hide behind noble considerations such as environmental protection, respect for labour norms and human rights, in order to serve some narrow self-interests, to justify the restriction of access to markets and to impose trade sanctions. On another plane, we should be well aware that the liberalization of investment is not a panacea for every malaise besetting our economies. Despite our interest in attracting investments, and despite our efforts to create a climate conducive to the flow of investments, the fact still remains that investment agreements should strike a fair balance between protecting the rights of the investor, on the one hand and ensuring the rights and interests of the receiving States, on the other. 18 A year ago, from this rostrum, I called for concerted efforts against attempts to marginalize the role of the United Nations. If we are still awaiting the development of rules of international conduct under a new world order that is still evolving, we then urgently need to ensure the survival of a strong and effective United Nations that can lead the way for us in this nascent world order.﻿Allow me, at the outset, to convey to you, Sir, on behalf of my delegation, my warm congratulations on your election as the President of the fifty-second session of the United Nations General Assembly. I am confident that your work will meet with great success throughout the session, particularly in guiding us in the task of reforming and restructuring the United Nations in preparation for the challenges ahead. I would like to pay tribute to your predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail, Permanent Representative of Malaysia, for the excellent manner in which he conducted our deliberations during the previous session. I also take this opportunity to commend the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his vision and devotion to the service of the United Nations. The creation of the United Nations by the founding fathers was a courageous decision. Although their objectives are yet to be fully realized, Kenya is convinced that they are still valid, and we remain fully committed to their achievement. The world has undergone tremendous transformation since the signing of the United Nations Charter in San Francisco 52 years ago. We have witnessed the end of the East-West military and political rivalry, which at times crippled decision-making in the United Nations system. New opportunities have emerged and the role of the United Nations has diversified, with the international community placing greater expectations on the Organization. Under the able leadership of His Excellency President Daniel T. arap Moi, Kenya has undertaken bold political and economic reforms whose benefits we are beginning to realize. We are committed and determined to continue forging national unity to enhance the process of democratization and socio-economic development. It is against this background that I wish to address some of the issues contained in the agenda of this session. In recapping the events of the past years, we note that the United Nations has made efforts to secure international peace and security. We regret that the peace dividend expected after the cold war has not materialized. Instead, the total volume of assistance to developing countries has declined, and the scourge of conflicts in various parts of the world, and in Africa in particular, has revealed the frightening proportions of ethnic and nationalistic hostilities and humanitarian crises. Intra-State conflicts have torn some of our nations apart, as they pose threats to security, social cohesion and economic progress. Some of these conflicts have proved difficult to prevent, manage or resolve. They have caused diversion of resources from developmental purposes to non- productive use. Kenya believes in the peaceful resolution of conflicts and encourages the settlement of disputes through negotiations, mediation, conciliation and arbitration as opposed to use of force. His Excellency President Daniel T. arap Moi, along with other leaders in Africa, has spent considerable time and resources coordinating peace initiatives in southern Sudan, Somalia, 14 Burundi, Rwanda and the former Zaire, among other places. We are happy to report that the stalled peace process concerning the conflict in southern Sudan was re-energized following the extraordinary Summit of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) held in Nairobi on 8 and 9 July 1997, at which the Sudanese Government accepted the Declaration of Principles, which calls on all factions to work together. In addition, during the IGAD Ministerial meeting held in Nairobi on 22 September 1997, the parties to the conflict agreed on 28 October 1997 as the date for the next meeting. Kenya believes that the parties must have the courage and political will to negotiate in good faith. It is equally important for the international community to actively support this process by making financial resources available as well as by exerting pressure on all the parties to rededicate themselves to finding a lasting solution to the conflict. We pay tribute to the IGAD Partnership Forum for its supportive role vis- à-vis the IGAD initiative. The prolonged conflict in Somalia remains a matter of great concern to Kenya. The continued absence of that sisterly State among the family of nations is indeed regrettable. We maintain that reconciliation of the warring factions is critical to finding a just, lasting and comprehensive peace settlement to the conflict. The international community, in particular the Intergovernmental Authority on Development, the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the United Nations, has an important role in assisting in the process of reconciliation. The crisis in the Republic of Congo is similarly a matter of grave concern to Kenya. We are concerned that three months have elapsed since the President of Gabon, Omar Bongo, called upon the Security Council to deploy a United Nations force to assist in normalizing the situation in that country. We wish to reiterate the OAU position stated at the recent Security Council ministerial meeting — namely, that there is a need for urgent intervention by the United Nations. Likewise, the situation in Burundi is also of concern to my country. We support the efforts by Mwalimu Julius Nyerere to find a negotiated solution to the problem in that country. We urge President Pierre Buyoya to take into account the concerns of the subregion and the international community in general and work towards a negotiated settlement. Kenya wishes to reiterate the position taken on the conflict in Sierra Leone by the thirty-third session of the OAU Conference of Heads of State and Government, held in Harare, Zimbabwe, in June 1997, that the international community desist from recognizing the military junta. We support the efforts by the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) in the search for a solution to the crisis in that country and urge the junta to return Sierra Leone to constitutional rule. We are convinced that quick and effective action by the international community is necessary, as underscored by President Tejan Kabbah during his intervention before the Assembly on 1 October last. My Government is also concerned with the political developments in the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros. We support the efforts by the Organization of African Unity aimed at bringing the Government and other parties together with a view to seeking a solution to the problem. We urge the people of the Comoros to work towards maintaining the sovereignty, national unity and integrity of their country. Kenya has been involved in the peace process in Angola since 1975. We are encouraged by the progress that has been made towards finding a peaceful solution to the prolonged crisis in that country. However, we wish to reiterate the need for both parties, in particular UNITA, to cooperate fully in the implementation of the Lusaka Protocol, the agreed framework for peace in Angola. At this point in time, any alternative will only hurt the people of Angola. On a positive note, we are encouraged by the cooperation between the United Nations and ECOWAS that enabled Liberia to hold successful elections, won by President Taylor. In this regard, we commend the efforts of ECOWAS, the international community and the Liberian people for the manner in which the elections were concluded. We wish Liberia success in the difficult task of reconstruction and post-conflict peace-building. Kenya believes that a continued United Nations presence and focused support of the international community are critical in the rehabilitation and reconstruction of Liberia, including the repatriation and reintegration of refugees. We welcome the Secretary- General’s intention to establish a peace-building support office in Monrovia upon the termination of the mandate of the United Nations Observer Mission in Liberia (UNOMIL). We are convinced that this will assist the new Government in its efforts to rebuild Liberia’s economy and contribute towards the promotion of peace and stability in the region. 15 Kenya welcomes the recent movements towards the resumption of negotiations by the parties to the conflict in the Middle East. We wish to urge them to honour in good faith the Oslo agreements they have entered into and to refrain from activities that have the potential of undermining the peace process. There is a need for the Government of Israel and the Palestinian Authority to resume dialogue in order to resolve all outstanding issues. Kenya will continue to support the parties in their search for a just, durable and comprehensive peace. We also welcome the Secretary-General’s initiative in Cyprus and the efforts of the international community to bring the parties to the negotiating table. In this respect, we applaud the face-to-face intercommunal talks held in Switzerland on 11 August last. The world would like to see both the Greek and Turkish Cypriots resolve their problem of more than two decades. There is therefore a need to intensify efforts to find a durable solution to that problem. We call upon the international community to also support the talks by exerting pressure on both sides and to refrain from activities that might be seen as impeding the peace process. The humanitarian emergencies accompanying these conflicts require an urgent response from the international community. Thousands of people are affected in one way or another. Refugees and displaced persons are experiencing varying degrees of suffering on a daily basis. While reiterating our support for the work of the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees and of the international community, we feel that it is vital to enhance closer coordination and cooperation between all actors to facilitate the complementarity of efforts. We are committed to the promotion of universal humanitarian principles and international humanitarian law. Kenya, indeed, has been host to thousands of refugees from our region. We have stretched our meagre resources to accommodate the refugees but regret that some of them have abused our hospitality and caused problems of insecurity in our own country. We urge the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to work closely with the Government of Kenya in monitoring and verifying the genuineness of the refugees in order to address this problem. Kenya and other African countries have contributed troops to various United Nations peacekeeping missions worldwide. We view the reluctance by the international community to support operations in Africa as a departure from the Charter responsibilities of the United Nations. We recognize that concerted efforts by the countries affected and others in the region are necessary in the settlement of conflicts. The involvement of regional organizations in the prevention, management and resolution of conflicts should therefore not entail any derogation of the responsibilities of the United Nations. We wish to reaffirm that the role of peacekeeping and peace enforcement throughout the world must remain the responsibility of the United Nations and in particular of the Security Council, in accordance with the Charter. In this respect, Africa expects to see swift handling of the conflict in the Congo (Brazzaville), in much the same way as was the case in the Balkans. My country welcomes the results of the Oslo Diplomatic Conference on an International Total Ban on Anti-Personnel Landmines. This constitutes a significant contribution to the realization of ending the use of weapons that have wreaked havoc in many parts of the world. Kenya commends the international community for its efforts to bring to an end the use of these deadly weapons. A prominent feature in recent years has been the increasing globalization of the world economy. Although the global economy continues to show modest growth, with the highest performance being experienced in East Asia, Africa’s economy still lags behind. The continent remains highly vulnerable to adverse international economic policies and natural calamities due to its limited capacity to respond. The economy is characterized by poverty and underdevelopment. The per capita incomes are the lowest in the world, and most of the countries are unable to feed their growing population. At the same time, the marginalization of the continent continues, with unsustainable external debt being a major factor. We welcome the measures taken by the international community at the bilateral and multilateral levels to mitigate the debt burden. It is evident, however, that Africa’s indebtedness continues to be a major constraint in the economic development of the continent despite efforts by many countries to implement economic reforms. These efforts have not met with adequate bilateral and multilateral financial support, resulting in limited prospects for economic growth. We underscore that the reduction or cancellation of both the bilateral and multilateral debt of the heavily indebted countries needs serious consideration. Kenya urges the international community to seriously address the external debt crisis. 16 In addition, we regret that the agreed official development assistance target of 0.7 per cent has not been met by most donor countries but has, as a matter of fact, declined to approximately 0.25 per cent. Hence, the implementation of the United Nations Agenda for Development should address all these issues and place Africa in its proper perspective. We appeal to the industrialized countries to reverse the declining trend in official development assistance and to honour their commitments by attaining the agreed target. Kenya believes that to achieve good results, development must be people- oriented and involve all actors, with emphasis on human resource development, application of science and technology, and the creation of employment and income- generating opportunities. Africa has abundant human and natural resources, which, if properly harnessed, could generate wealth for the people of the continent. Kenya is committed to the promotion of South-South cooperation and urges that necessary measures be taken to ensure effective collaboration. In this regard, Kenya and other countries of the region are promoting regional cooperation in order to integrate our economies in the long run. We wish to appeal to our partners to complement these efforts by intensifying technical and financial support. We underscore that without social and economic progress it is difficult to achieve peace. The liberalization of trade regimes and the promotion of an open and secure multilateral trading system are vital requirements for the acceleration of economic development. As a member of the World Trade Organization, Kenya is committed to the liberalization of both trade and investment regimes. In this regard, unilateral protectionist actions, which are inconsistent with multilateral trade agreements, should not be allowed to interfere with these arrangements. Kenya is committed to the implementation of the outcomes of the various United Nations conferences, such as the Rio United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, the Cairo International Conference on Population and Development, the Copenhagen World Summit for Social Development, the Beijing Fourth World Conference on Women, the Istanbul United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and the Rome World Food Summit, among others. We are disappointed that the outcome of these conferences has to a large extent remained unimplemented. In the course of implementing Agenda 21, my country has initiated innovative steps to protect and preserve the ecosystem. These include public awareness programmes, environmental education and the Great Rift Valley Conservancy Programme, which ensures integrated utilization of land. We urge the international community to honour their commitments by making available new and additional resources for the attainment of the intended objectives. As the United Nations continues to introduce measures to ensure reduction of waste, it is imperative that the Organization ensure maximal and rational use of the existing facilities within the United Nations system. As host to the only United Nations headquarters in the developing world, we are concerned that the facilities at the Nairobi offices are underutilized. In this regard, Kenya wishes to see maximal utilization of the facilities available in Nairobi, the headquarters of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and of the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements (Habitat). We therefore wish to urge that General Assembly resolutions requiring meetings to be held at their respective headquarters should, to the extent possible, be adhered to. We are further concerned that both UNEP and Habitat suffer from inadequate funding despite their enormous potential. We note that these two United Nations bodies need to be strengthened by streamlining their administrative and financial management. Above all, they require adequate and predictable financial resources from all sources in order to fulfil their mandates. In this context, we would like to request the Secretary-General to expedite the implementation of measures expected to revitalize the two institutions. In addition, we wish to appeal to the donor community to honour their financial commitments and release any blocked funds to enhance the effective operation of UNEP and Habitat. Kenya will continue to ensure that the United Nations offices in Nairobi operate in a smooth environment. The challenges facing the Organization in the next millennium are many and complex. It is imperative that the Organization be restructured to enable it respond adequately to new priorities and challenges. In this respect, we wish to commend the Secretary-General for unveiling reform measures and proposals that will form the basis of our discussion. We urge the Secretary- General to speedily implement measures within his mandate to reduce waste and ensure effective utilization of existing facilities and better coordination and cooperation within the United Nations. Kenya is committed to the reform of the United Nations and will continue to participate actively in the 17 debate. We expect that the reforms will be carried out with transparency, and in full compliance with the democratic principles and purposes of the Charter. In our view, the Organization requires not radical transformation but rather the strengthening and modification of its structures and organs to enhance its effectiveness. In reforming the United Nations, it is of paramount importance for Member States to recognize that unpaid contributions constitute a major obstacle to the effectiveness of the Organization. We are concerned that the United Nations is facing a financial crisis which is due basically to Member States not honouring their Charter obligations. For the United Nations to fulfil its mandate effectively, there is need for stable, predictable and adequate financing. We therefore urge Member States to take concrete action to clear their arrears without conditionalities. Furthermore, adjustment of the scale of assessments ought to be the result of a collective decision to redistribute the financial burden while bearing in mind the principle of capacity to pay. Kenya considers that the Security Council should be reformed to make it possible to achieve transparency, accountability, democratization and balanced regional representation. We reaffirm the position of the Organization of African Unity calling for the enlargement of the Council in both categories of membership to a total of 26 seats. We reiterate that Africa should be allocated at least two permanent and five non-permanent seats in the reformed Council. We also support reforms in the economic and social fields which should enhance complementarity and better coordination of the activities of the Council. The Economic and Social Council should assume effective coordination of international policies and the activities of the specialized agencies. Further, it should ensure mobilization of resources for the operational activities which are critical for the achievement of socio-economic development. We are convinced that strengthening and revitalizing the functions of the Economic and Social Council will accelerate development, particularly in the areas of poverty alleviation, environment degradation, health and humanitarian assistance, among other areas. I should like to conclude my statement by reaffirming Kenya’s readiness to support measures that will strengthen the United Nations and turn it into a more focused and integrated Organization able to steer humanity into the next millennium. Let us all strive to make the Organization more effective in serving mankind in the years to come. We are determined to make our contribution.  ﻿Allow me first of all to extend my delegation’s whole-hearted congratulations on the unanimous election of Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko to the high office of President of this session. His skills as a statesman are excellent qualifications for the presidency, and I wish to assure him of my delegation’s support and cooperation at all times during the proceedings of this session. My delegation’s appreciation also goes to the President of the fifty-first session, His Excellency Ambassador Razali Ismail, for the impressive work he accomplished during his presidency. His efforts to improve the work of the General Assembly and strengthen the role of the United Nations in international affairs have increased the momentum of the United Nations reform process. My delegation congratulates him on a job well done. On behalf of my delegation, I also wish to extend our congratulations to the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan. Since he assumed office in January this year, he has been engaged in commendable efforts to reform the United Nations Organization. The presentation of his two-tracked proposals and measures 21 constitutes a bold and far-reaching reform programme, which is expected not only to revitalize the United Nations system but also to make it better suited to execute its mandates in the years ahead in a more efficient and cost- effective manner. The fifty-second session of the General Assembly is taking place at an important period during the international community’s effort to evolve an atmosphere of viable and equitable international cooperation in the areas of economic development, social advancement and the recognition of the important need for the maintenance of a balanced global ecosystem. The recent holding of the nineteenth special session of the General Assembly, on the overall review and appraisal of the implementation of Agenda 21, is one of the many factors and activities that symbolize the importance of this period and that mark our collective effort to shape a more meaningful atmosphere of international cooperation. The special session reaffirmed the international community’s effort to ensure that the blueprint for international development and the preservation of the environment, as enunciated in Agenda 21 and the Rio Declaration five years ago, are translated into concrete realities. The successes and constraints so far recorded in our effort to achieve sustainable development clearly point to the difficulty of creating a framework for international cooperation characterized by the full and continued commitment of both developed and developing countries. As stated by Her Excellency the Vice-President of the Gambia during the special session, “The difficult and protracted negotiations and the intellectual, expert and statesmanlike efforts that made these agreements possible reflected the goodwill and good faith of all Governments ... “... the constraints cited as obstacles to implementation during this review session tend to indicate the persistence of the contentious and also cross-cutting issues of additional financial resources, technology transfer, information sharing, training and institutional capacity-building and the unfulfillment of our differentiated responsibilities under these provisions”. [See Official Records of the General Assembly, Nineteenth Special Session, Plenary Meetings, 9th meeting] I wish to inform the General Assembly of the political evolution taking shape in my country, the Gambia. Since the Gambian delegation addressed the Assembly last year, we have successfully completed a two-year transition programme to democratic civilian rule with the entry into force of a new Constitution for the Second Republic in January this year. Successful free and fair presidential and National Assembly elections were held earlier, in September 1996 and early January 1997. Most of the institutions provided for under the new Constitution are already in place and have started to play their legitimate role in the promotion and entrenchment of a genuine democratic culture that is commensurate with the hopes and aspirations of all Gambians. Throughout the transition process, the people of the Gambia have been regularly consulted; their views and aspirations have guided the process. In this exercise we have been faithful to our wishes. The Gambian National Assembly, which is playing its important role in our nation-building, has been readmitted to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, where we will continue to participate actively. Alive to the fact that genuine democracy can neither thrive nor be nurtured and sustained in the midst of poverty, deprivation, hunger, ignorance and ill-health, the Gambia Government embarked on an ambitious socio- economic development programme during the two-year transition period, which focused basically on building schools, health facilities, roads and other infrastructure as well as on boosting agricultural development in order to ensure food self-sufficiency by the year 1999. The main objective of this programme was to lay the basis for a genuine and sustainable democracy that is in consonance with our own social and other specificities as a nation. The successful completion of the transition period intensified our Government’s determination to continue the effective implementation of measures and programmes designed to promote and achieve the sustained socio- economic development of the Gambia. In order to accomplish this task, the Government of the Gambia, in collaboration with the private sector, has embarked on the implementation of a national development programme to transform the country economically and socially over a 25-year period into a developed, economically viable State. The blueprint for this socio-economic development is called Vision 2020. The overall orientation of this development blueprint, as enunciated in its mission statement, is: “To transform the Gambia into a financial centre, a tourist paradise, a trading export-oriented agricultural and manufacturing nation, thriving on 22 free market policies and a vibrant private sector, sustained by a well-educated, trained, skilled, healthy, self-reliant and enterprising population, and guaranteeing a well-balanced ecosystem and a decent standard of living for one and all, under a system of government based on the consent of the citizenry”. It is obvious from that mission statement that we in the Gambia have opted for a holistic development strategy that is human-centred and export-oriented, and founded on free market principles. As rightly pointed out by His Excellency President Yahya A. J. J. Jammeh in his foreword to Vision 2020, “This means that the production base of the economy will be strengthened and diversified to cater for the needs of an export-oriented industry. In pursuit of pragmatism, Vision 2020 will build on the sound macroeconomic policies of our recent past while launching a new partnership contract between the public and private sectors to spin faster growth with equity.” In this connection, the Gambia has embarked on a sustained effort to enhance bilateral and multilateral cooperation with all friendly countries and institutions in order to ensure the realization of our development goals as enshrined in Vision 2020. In pursuit of these goals, we will not relent in our efforts to develop and enhance intra- African cooperation and solidarity in all vital sectors for the attainment of sustained economic growth. It is in fact the Gambia’s firm belief and conviction that it is only through such cooperation, founded on self-reliance and hard work, that African countries can adequately rise to the daunting development challenges facing them. To complement our own efforts at the national, subregional and regional levels, no effort will be spared to develop and enhance cooperation with all traditional development partners as well as new friends in conformity with the underlying principles of the Gambia’s foreign policy objectives, which are predicated on openness, peaceful coexistence, genuine respect for each other’s point of view and full equality in international intercourse with all countries. We strongly believe that it is only through dialogue and the constant quest to understand the points of view of others that we can aspire to attain world peace, mutual trust and understanding. Here, I would like to underline again that the centrepiece of the Gambia’s foreign policy is the promotion of African solidarity and self-reliance and the enhancement of world peace. That is why we are friends of all countries of the world irrespective of ideological or political differences. This policy is predicated on our strong belief that the world is one family, and that it pays no dividends to isolate any member of that great family, because any member of the family which feels isolated quickly becomes intransigent and hostile in its dealings with the rest of us. It is therefore paramount for us to maintain lines of dialogue between ourselves, which can only promote understanding. On global economic issues, we note that the world economic outlook continues to be influenced strongly by the forces of economic globalization and trade liberalization, which in themselves are not negative trends, provided they are underpinned by a genuine desire on the part of all concerned to promote partnership, in an environment where equality reigns supreme. The persistent slow rate of development in Africa can be traced to certain factors and impediments. Africa’s foreign debt crisis remains a major impediment to growth. The international community’s effort to resolve Africa’s external debt problem continues to fall short of the desired result. The Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative, recently adopted by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank, while complementing the global effort, also fell short of the expected target of complete cancellation of the debt stock of developing countries. Unless this is done, the debt burden will naturally continue to have a negative impact on the availability of existing resources to finance Africa’s economic recovery and social development. Also, the growth and expansion of the incidence of poverty in Africa has contributed to the failure to achieve sustainable development on the continent. The sombre conclusions on the increase of poverty reflect, in a wider sense, the seeming lack of the required commitment by the international community to promote social progress and the qualitative improvement of the human condition, as recommended by the World Summit for Social Development. Here I want to state that my country, the Gambia, has embarked on a bold national plan of action for the eradication of poverty, and I want to commend the United Nations system, the World Bank and other bilateral partners that are actively assisting us to achieve our goals in this domain. We thank them for their continued support. Poverty, we all agree, is a global problem that needs to be addressed by all of us. 23 The pursuit of global peace and security remains a fundamental responsibility of our Organization. It is, however, regrettable that the international community’s effort to achieve international peace and security has been constrained by continued conflicts and other forms of tension between States and communities. In our own subregion of West Africa, the situation evolving in Sierra Leone remains of grave concern, not only to us but also to the international community. Failure to resolve the problem and restore stability, security and constitutionality in Sierra Leone can only prolong the ordeal of the innocent and peace-loving people of that country. Therefore, we all hope that the initiatives embarked upon by the Economic Community of West African State (ECOWAS) within the framework of the Committee of Five will yield the anticipated results. I am pleased to note that the approach adopted by the Committee of Five to find a solution to the Sierra Leone crisis has the support of the United Nations Security Council and the Organization of African Unity (OAU). It is hoped that the restoration of constitutional democracy in Liberia following the national elections held on 19 July 1997 will lead to a permanent peaceful solution to the country’s crisis, paving the way for sustained national reconstruction. All of us in the subregion are giving our material and moral support to the sister Republic of Liberia to help it stay on the path of national reconciliation in order to recover fully from its tragedies of the recent past. With regard to the Middle East, despite the significant progress of the past few years in the Middle East peace process, especially since the signing of the Oslo accords, we note with concern the erosion of the peace dividend accumulated in the international community’s effort to achieve durable peace there. The recent escalation of tension between Israel and Palestine over the extension of Israeli settlements in East Jerusalem constitutes a serious threat to peace and security in the region. The adoption by the General Assembly of resolution ES-10/3 of 15 July 1997, as well as other peace initiatives by the international community should, however, provide the basis for a peaceful and permanent solution to the conflict. On a more general note, we in the Gambia strongly believe that the containment of tension and conflict globally can be enhanced by transparency, the restoration of mutual trust and confidence and respect for the rights of peoples, communities and nations in the execution of the role and mandates of the United Nations. As I indicated earlier, it is only through genuine dialogue and the desire and will to understand each other that we can achieve global peace. In this regard, my delegation strongly supports the aspiration of the 21.3 million people of the Republic of China on Taiwan to exercise their right to share and participate in the activities of intergovernmental organizations on international cooperation by joining this comity of nations. The legitimacy of their aspirations, both legal and national, has been reinforced by similar actions and measures taken by the United Nations on the issue of parallel representation, which now serve as useful reminders and examples. The Taiwan question is also a test of the international community’s interpretation of democracy. As we are all aware, the Republic of China on Taiwan has existed, physically, legally and politically, since the foundation of the United Nations. My Government therefore believes that our Organization will do itself a great service by admitting Taiwan into our midst, in the true spirit of the application of democratic principles. The presence of the Republic of China on Taiwan among us can only enrich our Organization. In this regard, we therefore believe that resolution 2758 (XXVI) adopted at the twenty-sixth session of the General Assembly, needs to be reviewed. Concerning the legal dispute surrounding the bombing of Pan Am flight 103, the Gambia supports the resolution on the matter adopted by the OAU Heads of State or Government in Harare last May as providing a viable framework for resolving the present impasse. With regard to Cuba, it is incomprehensible to us Gambians why a whole people, a whole nation, should be made to suffer the denial of the basic necessities of life simply because it chooses to live under a different political ideology. Therefore, in the present climate of greater international cooperation and reconciliation, the people of Cuba and their Government deserve the support and assistance of the international community in their continued efforts to engage in more meaningful national development in order to achieve greater socio-economic progress. We fully support the measures being taken by this body to provide this support. In doing so, our Organization will only be upholding the principle of respecting the basic human rights of the Cuban people. It is in this same spirit that we call on the international community to continue to preserve the 24 dignity and security of the people and the Government of Kuwait and to support the full implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions on payment of reparations and compensation, release of prisoners of war and other conditions imposed on Iraq for its internationally condemned act of aggression against Kuwait. Therefore, while we encourage greater United Nations intervention in bringing solace to the suffering, innocent Iraqi civilian population, we strongly urge the Government of Iraq to comply with the provisions of these Security Council resolutions, in order to alleviate the suffering, especially that of the children. That catalogue of conflicts and misunderstandings has prompted my Government and people to formulate the following wish, which we want to express to the international community: we want the United Nations and the international community to make a solemn pledge to ensure that all conflicts are peacefully resolved by the year 2000. In order to achieve this noble aim, we propose, first, that 1998 be declared a year for the resolution of all conflicts between Member States; and, secondly, that 1999, as it is on the eve of the twenty-first century, be a year devoid of conflicts and misunderstanding, to become the year of reconciliation. This, we believe, will enable humankind to enter the twenty-first century as a united, peaceful family that can proudly bequeath to ensuing generations a developed, peaceful world, where democracy, justice, freedom and equality are guaranteed to everyone, irrespective of origin, race, religion or political ideology. That is what the Gambia wants to bequeath to coming generations, and we strongly believe that all it takes is tolerance, mutual respect, love, patience and understanding. With regard to global trade relations, we followed with high expectation the conclusion of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations and its implementation. While encouraging globalization and liberalization, it deprived developing countries, particularly those in Africa, of the opportunities and benefits predicted during its implementation. We note, however, that the liberalization of trade and investment policies has yet to foster international cooperation for the achievement of economic development and genuine partnership among all nations. Developing countries in general, and African and the least developed countries in particular, are yet to be effectively integrated into the world economy. The commitments agreed in the Final Act of the Uruguay Round have not been fully implemented. International cooperation has, however, continued to flourish in other equally important areas. The promotion and expansion of South-South cooperation continues to receive greater support among developing countries. These cooperation initiatives have resulted in the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, among many other initiatives. Within the context of promoting South-South cooperation, Japan has successfully held the Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD I) and it is now planning to host a follow-up conference, TICAD II, next year, in an effort to develop a practical, achievable and sustainable development programme for Africa. It is indeed commendable that this Japanese initiative is not restricted to Africa, but also includes the evolution of a new development strategy responsive to the present international development climate, and is providing the motivating force for a concerted global effort. We commend Japan for these initiatives, including financial contributions which serve as a practical demonstration of South-South cooperative interaction and application. It should, however, be pointed out that the promotion and application of South-South cooperation within the context of technical and economic cooperation among developing countries can only succeed as an important aspect of international development cooperation if both the South and North remain committed to its full realization. Intra-African economic cooperation and integration have also been growing. Regional activities are now directed to the socio-economic transformation and integration of the economies of African States. The adoption and implementation of the Abuja Treaty, putting in place economic integration arrangements, is a positive effort in building an African Economic Community. The inaugural session of the African Economic Community was held during the thirty-third summit of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) in June this year. We in Africa are becoming more and more aware of the paramount importance of self-reliance. Any assistance from development partners must be seen as a complement to what we can or should do by ourselves. 25 Within the context of subregional cooperation, the Gambia hosted the twelfth summit of Heads of State and Government of the Permanent Inter-State Committee for Drought Control in the Sahel (CILSS), held in Banjul from 11 to 12 September 1997. The summit unanimously elected His Excellency Colonel Yahya A. J. J. Jammeh, President of the Republic of the Gambia, as chairman of the organization for the next three years. These meetings and activities testify to the importance attached to the issues of drought and desertification, not only in Africa, but also in other parts of the world, and to the urgent need for a sustained collaborative effort to combat the twin menace. In this regard, the Gambia is fully and actively participating in the ongoing Rome Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa. In fact, we should redouble the resources provided and the measures so far adopted to combat drought and desertification and improve our environment in accordance with the provisions of the Convention, and also of chapter 12 of Agenda 21, adopted at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development. In furtherance of these targets we intend to achieve, as President Yahya Jammeh stated, sustainable development and food security through research into the underlying phenomena of drought, desertification and ecological instability and by designing and implementing programmes for natural resource management and the improvement of agro-food sectors in the Sahel, as well as the sustainability of farming systems. I will conclude with the subject of reform of the United Nations system, a subject very dear to the hearts of Gambians. The reform of the United Nations system continues to engage our collective attention. Reform activities — including the restructuring and revitalization of the United Nations in the economic, social and related fields, especially the work of the Economic and Social Council; and the efforts of the High-level Open-ended Working Group on the Strengthening of the United Nations System in formulating innovative mechanisms to enhance the role and functions of the General Assembly and its main Committees, as well as of the Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council — continue to attract wide debate, both at the United Nations and in other forums. These include OAU, which at the summit of Heads of State and Government held in Harare in June adopted a Declaration on the reform of the Security Council to which the Gambia remains firmly committed. It is my Government’s firm belief and conviction that there is an urgent need to democratize the United Nations, and especially the Security Council, to make it more responsive to the hopes and aspirations of all its Members for a world devoid of intolerance, injustice and inequality. There is therefore a need to curb the use of the veto, which is exercised by some Powers in the Security Council against the wishes of the vast majority of the Members of our Organization. The geopolitical and historical considerations that were at the heart of the present composition and mandate of the Security Council no longer prevail. The composition of the Security Council should therefore be reflective of the realities of our times, and the powers of the individual Member States therein seen in the same light. We also firmly believe that it is necessary to ensure that United Nations resolutions and, indeed, decisions by the International Court of Justice are respected, obeyed and implemented by all countries. It is not fair that while some countries are chastised for violating United Nations resolutions, others seem to violate them with impunity. With regard to the Secretary-General’s Track 2 reform proposals, the report (A/51/950) entitled “Renewing the United Nations: A Programme for Reform” includes bold and far-reaching measures and proposals. The Gambia generally supports the Secretary- General’s reform proposals, in particular the following. First, we have that of creating a dividend for development. The effectiveness of this initiative would depend on Member States meeting their financial contributions to the Organization on time. Moreover, the initiative should serve as a catalyst for donors to provide greater support for development by meeting the agreed target contribution of 0.7 per cent of their gross national product. Secondly, the creation of the post of Deputy Secretary-General is timely, given the increasing mandates of the Organization. However, it is expected that the role of the Deputy Secretary-General would go beyond mobilization of funds for the Organization to incorporate administrative coordination. The length of stay in office of the incumbent should be determined. Thirdly, restructuring and regrouping of organs and agencies to facilitate their effectiveness and productivity should be guided by agreed principles, procedures and operational objectives to prevent a reduction of their 26 usefulness while enhancing the achievements of their specific goals. Fourthly, the fiscal measures, including zero growth and personnel cuts, are necessary. It is expected that this will not impair the Organization’s capability to fully discharge all its responsibilities. Fifthly, the putting into effect of “UN House” — the common premises system for all United Nations agencies serving in one country — is necessary and timely, given the substantial savings to be derived from the sharing of common services. Additionally, maintaining a common identity and location in a country would enhance the United Nations presence as a world Organization, as well as its accessibility in terms of speed and effective communication. It will also minimize confusion, waste and duplication of efforts. Suffice it to say that the Gambia will continue to study the Secretary-General’s reform proposals and their broad implications for the Organization and Member States in the years ahead. Lastly, as we continue with the reform of the United Nations system after over 50 years of operations, so must we also continue to address the weaknesses, inequalities and inadequacies inherent in the international economic and social system, global trade, finance and investment, international development and so on in order to achieve more meaningful international cooperation and global partnership, the promotion and preservation of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the right to development, good governance and economic growth — all cherished hallmarks of sustainable development and human achievements.﻿It gives me pleasure to convey to the President the greetings of His Excellency Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al- Jaber Al-Sabah, Acting Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the State of Kuwait, who profoundly regrets being unable to participate personally in the debate at this session due to some pressing matters. He has requested me to deliver the following statement by Kuwait on his behalf: “On behalf of the State of Kuwait, it gives me pleasure to congratulate Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko on his election as President of the United Nations General Assembly at its fifty-second session. We are confident that he will be able to lead our deliberations efficiently towards a successful conclusion. The extensive experience he has gained from service at this important international institution together with the high posts he has assumed will no doubt prove valuable. Let me also underline the good relations existing between our two countries, based on mutual understanding and common interest. “I wish to take this opportunity to pay tribute to his predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail, the former President of the General Assembly, who demonstrated an impressive sense of purpose, dedication and deep perception. Under his stewardship, the Assembly reasserted its genuine importance and relevance in international relations. “I wish to pay tribute to our new Secretary- General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, who took the helm of the Organization at the beginning of the year. Apart from being a long-time career insider at the United Nations, Mr. Annan to us now stands as a good example of the executive manager enjoying wisdom and prudence, together with integrity and commitment, that make him a living embodiment of dedication to the ideals and mission of the United Nations. “In the same vein, I wish to set on record our recognition of the significant contribution of Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the former Secretary- General, in leading the Organization with efficiency and confidence. Kuwait will always recognize his contributions with a deep sense of appreciation. “Two years ago, the United Nations celebrated its fiftieth anniversary. The mood then was optimistic about the role and capability of the Organization to cope with the lingering issues that remained without a solution over the first half century. This was due to the nature of these problems, which was aggravated by the major-Power polarization during the cold war. The sense of optimism emanated from our deep conviction that the global understanding that swept the world would eventually generate the firm will to address the outstanding problems that jeopardize international peace and security. Also, the widespread public awareness of the relevance of the United Nations would also help the Organization in resolving pending matters. Furthermore, the impressive track record of the United Nations has earned it collective credibility regarding the vitality and flexibility of the machinery at its disposal. “Kuwait has examined with great interest the measures and recommendations contained in the report of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, 18 entitled Renewing the United Nations: A Programme for Reform', which was submitted to the General Assembly in mid-July last. In this connection, we would like to register Kuwait’s support for this programme and its appreciation of the efforts made by Mr. Kofi Annan and his assistants to produce this impressive achievement. The report is analytical in its approach and pragmatic in its outlook, focusing on performance efficiency without partiality. It also focused on improving the financial situation of the Organization through the institution of better internal control mechanisms and practical suggestions. The ultimate goal of all these measures is to enhance the performance of the United Nations, which would be more innovative in its operational modalities and more focused on its global concerns. “We have noted, with appreciation, the reports submitted by a wide array of working groups on restructuring the organs of the United Nations and improving their efficiency in order to adapt the entire system to the new era following the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations and the post- confrontation environment. The United Nations seems poised to embark on addressing in a more comprehensive manner humanitarian, cultural, demographic and environmental issues which were not prominent on its list of priorities previously. “Moreover, as we recognize the realities of contemporary life, we understand that the world order continues to be quite fluid, and it is indeed difficult to predict its future shape. The current stage is not a unipolar power era, as some might imagine. It is a multipolar arena, where military might is no longer the final arbiter in the definition of polarity. In fact, there exists immense technological superiority, which may enable some States to make an outstanding contribution to the shaping of global strategies. There is also the economic power that has brought together the major industrial nations in a collectivity which has a significant influence on the implementation of world strategies. This is not to mention the giant economic groupings which exist in the world of today. “Accordingly, the Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council, and other Matters Related to the Security Council, which has been examining the question of reform and expansion of Security Council membership for the past four years, should take these new facts of life into consideration. Once agreed upon, the new membership composition should reflect a collective and emphatic will to address adequately the issues at hand. Permanent members of the Council should be politically capable and should be financial and troop contributors. They should also be adept at crisis management, and able to act decisively, without hesitation, when the situation warrants such action. “In the final analysis, membership of the Security Council is not a privilege as much as it is a responsibility. It should not be a means for visibility, but a product of conviction. Our view is that the Security Council in its forthcoming composition should be a mirror reflecting a world shifting towards universalization and transparency in order to instil a better sense of security in all members of the world community, both North and South, East and West. Membership should not be divided between diverse security concepts, some favouring the North, while others are appropriate for the South. “In this context, Kuwait affirms its full commitment to the common Arab position and to the stand of the Non-Aligned Movement, both of which were elaborated time and again in several meetings of the Open-ended Working Group. “Undoubtedly, agreement on the concept of unconventional and common security requires in the first instance recognition of some crucial facts. The first element is the conviction that the security of humankind is universal and, in the final analysis, indivisible. The interests of members of the world community have become more and more interdependent, while civilizations and cultures are drawing closer. The daily concerns of individuals are universal in nature, requiring complex solutions, and are multidimensional in their negative impacts. The second element is the emphasis on the concept of economic and social development as a crucial factor in ensuring conventional security and collective handling of development requirements. This also calls for the involvement of international institutions in contributions to the improvement of living conditions in the poor nations that face severe impediments in their development efforts. “The third element is a firm belief in and commitment to the dignity of the human person as being the essence of human relations both within a 19 given society and among nations. In effect, this means upholding the dignity of the human person in the face of bloody regimes which flagrantly violate the principles of human rights and destroy their own nations to arrogate power to themselves. This brings us to the necessity of safeguarding the principles set forth in the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in the Charter of the United Nations. “Fourthly, all members of the world community should adopt peaceful policies which renounce violence, recognize the legitimate interests of others and respect their rights, expand the zones of mutual interests, give due priority to development and reject the arms race. Such peaceful policies should also abstain from behaviour and political expressions which disturb peace. They should observe civilized conduct in relationships among peoples, without the pursuit of any party’s privileges at the expense of others. No one should claim an imaginary historical role outside the parameters of justice, equality and the rule of law. “The world today is indeed a small planet whose problems interact and overlap. Its pressing problems are a global responsibility. When viewed through a human and global prism, we can see that the prosperity of the North pales in the shadow of the poverty of the South. The security of Europe will not be assured against a background of a marginalized Africa. There will be little peace of mind in America in the face of a population explosion in Asia, and with the widening gap between those with an abundance of wealth and those who suffer in deprivation. Dealing with the new developments in the world environment requires the evolution of a comprehensive concept of security. Any such concept must be anchored in understanding, coexistence, common interests, and the utilization of the universal technological revolution in managing vital national projects. This concept should replace the outdated concepts of security based on the balance of power, mutual deterrence and military presence. “The achievements made by the United Nations should provide the Organization with a further impetus to pursue the same course it has charted since the end of the cold war. “We welcome the movement towards the prohibition of the production, stockpiling and use of landmines. This would be yet another positive step added to similar measures, such as the Chemical Weapons Convention, the Comprehensive Nuclear- Test-Ban Treaty and the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Despite such instruments, some States continue to export weapons of mass destruction as a vital source of increased national income. We welcome the regulations that have been concluded to control arms, to reduce the level of nuclear threat, to tighten controls over the arms trade and to increase transparency regarding weapons expenditures. “In the same vein, we cannot underestimate the achievements made in the area of peacekeeping operations, where the United Nations has managed to contain dangers and defuse crises in several instances, although many regional problems remain unresolved and constitute flash-points of tension. “In this regard, we in Kuwait cannot but recall with admiration the firmness with which the Security Council responded to the aggression by the Iraqi regime against the State of Kuwait in August 1990. The Council’s response was characterized by firmness in rejecting aggression, resoluteness in its confrontation, and decisive action to abort the aggression through a series of resolutions that made the Council’s position perfectly clear. It started with rejection of aggression, then moved to deterrence, and culminated in decisive action. In all its dimensions and ramifications, that case has become a historical precedent that might constitute the basis for a solid background for dealing with any similar aggression, irrespective of its origin, against any State. “But Iraq, despite the dire need of its people for the lifting of economic sanctions imposed by the Security Council, has not yet fulfilled basic conditions required for ending the sanctions. There is the question of Kuwaiti and third-country prisoners and detainees. This is a humanitarian issue that affects several hundred families who still do not know the whereabouts of their loved ones. Young children continue to cry, appealing for help to rescue their missing fathers. The ad hoc Tripartite Commission continues to meet in Geneva while its technical sub-group still convenes in the border area between Kuwait and Iraq. Despite the formal nature of such regular meetings, which attract media attention, there has in effect been no progress in 20 determining the fate of these missing persons. In fact, the Iraqi regime has been exploiting their fate as a bargaining chip in its diplomatic manoeuvres. Iraq also continues to refuse to return a great deal of Kuwaiti property taken from the public and private sectors, the most important of which is an air defence system and other military equipment, in addition to the principal State documents, which have been referred to in the Security Council as State memory. “Among the other key obligations the Iraqi regime has failed to fulfil is the elimination of weapons of mass destruction, a subject that is being handled by the Special Commission. In this context, even after seven years of formal acceptance of relevant conditions, Iraq continues to indulge its hobby of procrastination, subterfuge and deception. Iraq hides certain weapons only to acknowledge later their existence after the Special Commission secures definitive proof of Iraq’s ownership of such weapons. It denies having certain types of missiles and biological components only to recant its assertions once the international teams of inspectors discover those items. “Kuwait welcomes Security Council resolution 1111 (1997) regarding the extension of the implementation of the provisions of resolution 986 (1995), which aims at alleviating the suffering of the brotherly people of Iraq. Indeed, the hardship faced by the people of Iraq has long persisted, due to the failure of the Iraqi regime to meet its obligations, and to its pursuit of a policy of procrastination and trickery. Iraq is called upon to follow a peaceful policy with neighbouring States in order to prove its good intentions. This is a substantive condition for the maintenance of regional security, which was shattered by the Iraqi regime. “We in Kuwait have gone through bitter experiences with regard to the intentions of the Iraqi regime, which seeks territorial expansion, regional supremacy, and military superiority at the expense of neighbouring countries and of their peace and stability. “In the light of our eager interest in the maintenance of security and stability in the region, we affirm the need to preserve the unity and territorial integrity of Iraq. “The supreme goal is to build a solid regional system firmly rooted in common understanding among neighbouring States which seek to expand avenues of mutual interests. This can be achieved through respect for and non-interference in the internal affairs of others, and through civilized coexistence among neighbouring peoples. In this respect, I should point out that my country is concerned over the continued existence of the problem of the occupation by Iran of three United Arab Emirates islands. Here I wish to emphasize Kuwait’s full commitment to the decision taken by the Gulf Cooperation Council on this subject. “I wish also to call upon the Islamic Republic of Iran to respond favourably to the peaceful initiative launched by His Highness Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, President of our sister United Arab Emirates, to engage in a serious dialogue that would take into account the inalienable rights of the United Arab Emirates to the islands in question, in accordance with the principles of good neighbourly relations, international law and the United Nations Charter. “The question of the Middle East and the success of the peace process there are crucial matters for world peace and security. You follow with us with deep regret the paralysis which befell that process and the increasing frustration and tension throughout the region. The current stalemate has touched off a flurry of threats and recriminations. All this is the net sum of the concepts put out by the Israeli Government regarding the frame of reference underlying the peace process in the region. “The Government of Israel has backtracked from the rules and principles of the Madrid Peace Conference and has replaced them by extraneous elements which contravene the rules unanimously agreed upon by the international community as a framework for the peace process, namely Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), together with the “land for peace” principle. Furthermore, Israel has not committed itself to implement bilateral agreements reached with the Palestinian Authority, including withdrawal from all occupied territories, including Jerusalem. Also, Israel has not desisted from its policies of annexing Arab Jerusalem, its Judaization and expansion of its illegal settlement in order to change the demographic composition of the Holy City which lies at the very core of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. In this regard, 21 we call upon the co-sponsors of the peace initiative to maintain even-handedness while doubling their efforts to revive the peace process in order to achieve a lasting, comprehensive and just resolution of the question of Palestine. “The people of Palestine have suffered for too long the excruciating pain of oppression, homelessness and neglect. It is the inherent right of the Palestinian people to exercise self-determination and to establish their own independent State, with Jerusalem as its capital, similar to other peoples who gained independence, so that they may contribute, within their own capacity, towards building world peace. “Along similar lines, Kuwait emphasizes the importance of Israeli withdrawal from the occupied Syrian Golan, which has been under occupation since 1967. This question cannot be ignored if we desire the peace process to be complete. Indeed, the peace must be comprehensive, covering all tracks. It should be anchored in good faith, in respect for the rights of others and in mutual confidence. In this regard, we support Syria’s position that negotiations with Israel should resume from the point where they halted instead of starting new rounds of talks whose terms of reference have not been defined. Kuwait also supports Lebanon’s firm stand that Israel is duty-bound to implement all provisions of Security Council resolution 425 (1978) and to preserve Lebanon’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. This can be achieved only by full, unconditional Israeli withdrawal from southern Lebanon, so that Lebanon could resume its traditional role in consolidating development and prosperity. “Kuwait notes with deep regret that ethnic, factional and civil conflicts among tribal chiefs in both Afghanistan and Somalia still continue. We remain hopeful that the United Nations will take more effective steps to address these problems that have torn asunder those two countries and have continued to undermine regional security. We also appeal to all parties in these two countries to put an end to acts of violence and to put overall national interests ahead of their tribal and ethnic interests. “Kuwait lauds international efforts to implement fully the Dayton Agreement, which aims at achieving security and stability in Bosnia and Herzegovina and upholding international legitimacy at this stage. In this respect, we applaud the Security Council resolution to indict and prosecute certain political and military leaders in Bosnia and Rwanda for their crimes against humanity. “We live in a world bursting with events. Distances have shrunk, interests have grown, and security dimensions have become more interlinked. Adverse developments in the South worry the population of the North. Failure of development efforts has given impetus to chaotic waves of hungry migrants. Threats resulting from peoples’ frustrations have become interwoven. But, in our common pursuit of a better tomorrow, we must act on the basis of a universal conviction that armaments by themselves do not guarantee full security, that development is the core of progress, that dialogue is the bridge to understanding and that serious work gives birth to hope. Giving is an obligation, not an act of charity. Respect among nations is a key to stability, and self-improvement is a motive for work. Participation is the path to cooperation. Monopoly is one of the evils of bygone days, and openness is the road to a better future. Investments are the tools of development. Bigotry is repugnant to contemporary international relations. People prosper in a civilized environment that imbues them with the virtues of doing good and giving, reaching out towards those in need and moving against the odds in efforts to create a world that exudes friendship and amity, a world resting on the rules of international legality, a world enjoying security, peace and prosperity. “Our last prayer is to bless Allah, the lord of the universe.” ﻿My country and my delegation warmly congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty- second session. Your election to this high office is a tribute both to you and to your great country, Ukraine. I wish to assure you of my delegation's fullest cooperation during your tenure of office. It also gives me great pleasure to convey our profound gratitude and appreciation to the outgoing president of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session, Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia, who presided over the session with such consummate skill, expertise and diplomacy, and distinguished himself by his firm management of the session through his dedication to and thoroughness in the discharge of his assignment. I am also pleased to extend our sincerest congratulations to the new Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan. My delegation is convinced that Mr. Annan will make an outstanding contribution to the role and responsibilities of the United Nations in international affairs and to the management of the Organization. We wish to reassure him of our fullest cooperation during his tenure of office. The greatest challenge facing our world today is economic development, specifically the promotion of sustained economic growth with equitable social development, particularly in the developing countries of the world. For small island developing States like Fiji, and for many developing countries of the world in general, we need an international economic environment that is buttressed by economic justice. We need an international economic environment that ensures a better life in all the countries of the world and not in just a few. The slow pace of economic development and even the lack of such development in many countries of the world, circumscribed by the evils of unemployment and poverty, are threats to international peace and security. This greatest challenge is growing more and more acute as economic development is being retarded by a number of policies, trends and unilateral actions which pervade our world today. Our development policies, plans and programmes are being seriously eroded by difficulties in accessing the markets of the developed countries, worsening terms of trade, inadequate capital flow for investment, spiralling debt burdens, protectionist tendencies, ambivalence in the transfer of technologies and exchange-rate volatility. Small countries like mine, and indeed all developing nations, have no real influence in these matters, except as victims. The Charter of the United Nations calls for the promotion of the international economic and social advancement of all peoples. Implicit, if not explicit, in it is embedded the principle of economic justice. As Members of the United Nations, we have a collective moral and humanitarian obligation to help and assist each other. We have a collective duty to make our world a better place to live in. The time has come for the developed nations of the world, and all international organizations which can help, to cooperate and ensure justice by enabling developing countries in their own efforts towards the acceleration of sustained economic and social development. There are a number of ways in which the developing countries can be assisted towards achieving sustained economic and social development. Developing countries, even those endowed with natural resources, are handicapped by a lack of capital to mobilize these resources to their advantage. Developing countries need continuous foreign-direct-investment capital flows to stimulate and sustain economic growth. Both foreign direct investment and private-sector investment are needed to help diversify and increase economic activities, especially where industrialization is an option. Through the diversification of our economies we can produce more for export and trade. In fact, trade is the best means for sustained income generation and development. The present globalized international trade is ideally aimed at ensuring an open, secure, equitable, transparent and predictable multilateral system wherein all participants can benefit. The reality we face is very different from this espoused ideal. We do not live in an ideal world, but in the real world, where international trade is dominated by the industrialized, developed nations. Fiji and other developing and least-developed countries of the world 15 have to compete for markets with industrial giants. The international-trade playing field is not level, despite frequent statements to that effect. In reality, there is no even playing field. It is in truth marked by inequalities of power, influence and resources, with steep and almost insurmountable heights constraining small nations like ours. In order for small countries like Fiji to survive and to develop, we must be allowed to retain special arrangements for our essential exports, which give our people social and economic security. My country firmly believes that globalization is the phenomenon of today's international trade. The transformation of international trade rules from the Uruguay Round to the World Trade Organization (WTO) has been marked by rapid changes that can marginalize small developing countries like mine. The appellate body of the WTO has significantly narrowed the scope of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT)/WTO waiver to the European Community in respect of the Lomé Convention. Fiji is among other African, Caribbean and Pacific countries which will be adversely affected by these new arrangements if the arrangements of the Lomé Conventions are eroded. Furthermore, it has opened up room for policies and actions, leaving weak developing countries unprotected and exposed to economic stagnation. While the WTO is insisting on a level-playing-field approach, peculiarities that pose problems for small island developing countries persist. As for Fiji, our smallness, remoteness and inaccessibility to foreign markets remain our biggest hurdles in international trade. Annual natural disasters, a consequence of the climatic conditions in our location, continue to be a big drain on the Government's savings in terms of rehabilitation projects. Such angry seasonal visitations of nature can wreak havoc on budget plans and our scarce resources. Small island States like Fiji have a very limited range and volume of exports and they cannot and will not dominate and overwhelm any sector of trade commodities. In that context, my delegation is extremely disappointed at the recent decision of the World Trade Organization appeal body against banana exports from Caribbean countries to the European Union. We are not asking for favours. We are merely making a plea for a sensible and reasonable transition period to enable us to adjust. This cannot be done overnight; thus, special arrangements must remain to allow us the opportunity to find means for accommodation and replacement. The blind pursuit of free trade, resulting in dire consequences for small nations and leading to the loss of other fundamental freedoms, will not serve the purposes of eradicating poverty and eliminating social and economic inequalities. We seek an equality of opportunity in a world dominated by inequalities of resources and economic might. The World Trade Organization must bring a sense of equity and justice in its deliberations and decisions, and consciously eschew paths which disadvantage even further already disadvantaged developing nations. We seek an equality of understanding for the position of the weak and the small. We seek the creation of genuine freedom in trade, for trade remains the best means for sustained development for developing nations. The access of developing countries to new, environmentally sound technologies is also pivotal to economic development and sustained economic growth. There is a need for developing countries like Fiji to participate in, benefit from and contribute to the rapid advances in the technologies of developed, industrialized countries. Developing countries should be facilitated access to reliable information on environmentally sound technologies and helped in institutional development and capacity-building to accommodate the transfer of such technologies. Accessibility to knowledge for development is a right, the right of all nations, not merely of a powerful few to retain as a monopoly for their own selfish ends. Official development assistance is an important catalyst for development, yet its value remains unrealized. Only four countries have met or surpassed the official development assistance target of 0.7 per cent of gross national product. A renewed commitment to this target is essential in order to fulfil the imperatives established by the Charter of the United Nations. At this stage of our development, it is a much needed catalyst to our own efforts. External debt repayments continue to be a major constraint on economic development and sustained economic growth in major developing countries. Burdensome debt repayments not only cause economic development to stagnate, but stifle social development as well. I call for the adoption of an effective and equitable development-oriented solution to the debt problem, so that 16 it ceases to be a burden yet remains a useful tool for sustained development. I have emphasized economic growth for sustained development as the direction we must pursue. My country and Government are fully committed to this goal. Yet, for economic growth to be sustainable, as well as beneficial and of quality, the environmental factor must be brought to the forefront in all our development efforts. Despite the convening of the recent special session of the General Assembly for the purpose of an overall review of the implementation of Agenda 21, there are still no clear commitments on the part of many developed countries to work towards achieving such environmental goals as, for instance, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions to internationally specified levels. The South Pacific Forum island countries are among the most vulnerable to climate change in terms of sea level rise and global warming. It is therefore imperative that all members of the international community should strive for a firm political commitment before the next Kyoto Conference, to adopt a stronger protocol to strengthen the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. In this connection, my delegation joins others in expressing our appreciation to the private sector and civil society for the supportive interest they have shown in the search for an acceptable international solution to such global concerns. A most welcome demonstration of this is the recent donation of $1 billion by the Turner Foundation in support of certain crucial activities of the United Nations. We need more of such assistance to further sustain and strengthen the work of the United Nations in achieving its targets. I would now like to turn my attention to the issue of international security. Today we are witnessing a most significant period of change in our world, a change which bodes well for permanent and lasting peace and security. The cold war has been over for some time now and the tensions and threats to peace and security which it generated are behind us. As a consequence, and with the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), we have moved a step further towards nuclear disarmament. While this is gratifying, there is much more to be done to achieve the objective of our Organization to turn our swords into ploughshares and our spears into pruning hooks. The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty has added to the impressive list of political and legal instruments intended to de-escalate the production and stockpiling of nuclear weapons. We have come a long way in our efforts to prevent a nuclear holocaust on our planet, but the existence and improvement of nuclear weapons still leaves the threat over us. The current international situation creates a favourable condition for the international community, and particularly nuclear- weapon States, to take steps towards eliminating nuclear weapons from our planet. While the CTBT is a step in the right direction, it lacks a clear time-frame for the removal of all nuclear weapons from our midst. My delegation urges the international community to begin negotiations as soon as possible on a treaty to halt and prohibit, with acceptable verification, the production and development of all nuclear weapons. My delegation further urges the nuclear-weapon States to destroy all stockpiles and arsenals of nuclear weapons, with acceptable international verification, and thereby rid the world of nuclear weapons, once and for all. My delegation warmly welcomes the finalization in Oslo last week of a draft treaty prohibiting the development, production, acquisition, stockpiling, retaining or transferring of anti-personnel landmines. We call on all nations of the world to sign and ratify the treaty. In the achievement of all these objectives, whether they relate to sustained development or disarmament, the United Nations has a crucial role. It must possess a dynamism to be effective. It cannot be cumbersome, unwieldy and partial. To meet new challenges, the United Nations must be streamlined. A meaningful international organization such as ours must adapt to changes, enhancing its relevance and competence. The entire international community, including my country, has been calling for the reform of the United Nations. It has taken some time, but at last our new Secretary-General has presented his recommendations for a restructured Organization that can carry us over the threshold into the new millennium. I would like to thank the Secretary- General for his comprehensive, constructive and coherent recommendations. My delegation will carefully study the bold and far- reaching recommendations for reform, and we endorse the proposals in principle. I make a plea that in the implementation of these reforms there must also be positive benefits for the small Member States, including their increased participation in the United Nations system. I am particularly pleased that the Secretary-General has 17 identified economic and social affairs, as well as development cooperation, as core activities. His proposals are congruent with the high priority which my delegation places on economic growth for sustained development. I have already stated that the United Nations must play a constructive and catalytic role, within its macroeconomic policies to facilitate economic growth for sustained development, thereby enabling developing countries, which constitute the vast majority of the Members of the Organization, to have an equal share in the opportunities for wealth creation. I fully support the submission that peacekeeping will remain an indispensable instrument of the United Nations. My country, small though it is, has played its part in international peacekeeping programmes in virtually every theatre of the world since we joined the United Nations in 1970. In fact, in terms of size of population, Fiji is presently among the largest troop contributors to United Nations peacekeeping programmes. In the process, several of our peacekeepers have lost their lives. But as a nation we remain committed to the goal of permanent and lasting peace in our world. I might add here that it is a cause of great pride, but pride tempered with humility, that one of our nationals, Major-General Jioje Konrote, has been appointed Force Commander of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL). It reflects the degree and extent of the commitment of our small nation of fewer than a million people towards the peace and security of our world. The proposals for the reform of the United Nations encompass new management and efficiency measures which should reduce administrative costs, but the financial predicament of our Organization will not be resolved entirely by cost-cutting measures. It can be resolved if Member countries pay their contributions promptly. We call on all Member States which are in arrears to settle those arrears promptly, fully and without conditions. As we press ahead with the reform of the United Nations, it becomes incumbent on us to ensure that this extends to the Security Council. My country continues to advocate that the Security Council should be expanded to reflect an equitable geographical distribution, taking into account the substantial increase in the membership of the United Nations. Reforms affecting the Security Council should encompass opportunity for participation in its decisions, transparency in its work, a constructive relationship with the General Assembly and the limited scope and use of the veto power. On the issue of expansion, my country wishes to reiterate the recommendation it made to the General Assembly last November with regard to the membership of the Security Council, especially its non-permanent membership. We strongly favour an equitable and wider representation of non-permanent members, by which regions and subregions would adopt a rotation system, including a prohibition on immediate re-election. I further submit that in the same way that the Caribbean forms a special subregion of the Latin American Group, the South Pacific region comprising 14 independent island States, eight of which are members of the United Nations, and Australia and New Zealand, should become a special subregion, ensuring continuous membership from our region. These changes are prerequisites for a dynamic United Nations with credibility in the next millennium. Now more than ever, our international community needs a system of preventive diplomacy that can respond promptly, positively and peacefully to potential conflicts and threats of genocide. My country continues to call for a special United Nations division or unit to undertake preventive diplomacy in conflict prevention and conflict resolution. The division should have the capacity to receive, collate, analyze and interpret intelligence information and reports, with a view to early detection of potential conflicts and early reaction to minimize, contain and resolve such conflicts in collaboration with the relevant Member States. May I reiterate that in such a division, adequate representation of skills and expertise from small States must be mandatory, for the division must not become a device or a creature of the powerful to impose their will on their own terms. Speaking as the head of Government of a small island developing country, I totally support the principle of capacity to pay as a fundamental criterion and a firm benchmark on which the contribution of member countries to the United Nations should be assessed. My country therefore fully supports the recommendation of the Committee on Contributions that the scale of assessments for all Member States whose share of adjusted national income is below the current floor rate of 0.01 per cent should be assessed at their actual share of adjusted income. We also support the recommended minimum assessment rate of 0.001 per cent. We further urge that the ceiling should not be lowered any further because a reduction will negate the effect of reducing the recommended minimum floor rate. 18 My delegation supports the establishment of an international criminal court. Recent crimes against humanity, including genocide, have made it incumbent on the international community to take stern action against those who perpetrate such heinous acts. It is our sincere hope that the current efforts by the international community will be crowned with success and that come next year we shall be in a position to adopt a treaty establishing the international criminal court. My country strongly emphasizes that the protection and security of small States should remain a central concern of the United Nations. Increasingly, elected Governments and the sovereignty and security of their States are threatened by transnational networks of crime, narcotics, money-laundering and terrorism. These scourges are expanding, and international cooperation and action are essential to counter them. The Middle East continues to be a cauldron aboil with conflict, tension, violence and early death, the latter sadly reaching tragic proportions since last year's session of the General Assembly. We call upon all parties involved to engage in genuine negotiations towards a just and lasting peace in the Middle East. We call upon the international community, too, to contribute towards a just and lasting peace. Last year, I commended both the People's Republic of China and Taiwan for their efforts toward reconciling their differences. I wish to renew my plea to them to work towards unity. We in Fiji enjoy excellent relations with both of them, though we adhere firmly to our One China policy. We in the Pacific continue to enjoy their generosity and their concern for the welfare of the people of the South Pacific. Both the People's Republic of China and Taiwan enjoy our friendship and trust. Fiji and the other 15 member countries of the South Pacific Forum welcome their participation in the annual post-Forum dialogue and consultation with each of them. It is our fervent wish that they will, together, find a solution for their common future. Likewise, I urge South and North Korea to negotiate a solution that will bring lasting peace and unity to the people of Korea. Fiji is an oceanic State. As in many island countries, our progress and development depend as much on our land territory as on the sea around us. We are, therefore, concerned that the seas are utilized in a manner that is environmentally sound and that the development of marine resources is orderly and sustainable so that they can serve the present and future generations. We insist on this approach at the national level and strongly support similar efforts at regional and global levels. In the past decade, our region has adopted a number of treaties and declarations that address the issue of better management of oceans. More recently, following a decision of the heads of Governments of the South Pacific Forum, the region has taken the initiative to negotiate with distant-water fishing States the establishment of a regional fisheries management organization in order to give effect to the provisions of the 1982 Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Agreement relating to the Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks. This is an important initiative which is designed to promote sustainable use of the region's valuable fish resources to the benefit of both the coastal States and distant-water fishing nations. We look forward to a successful outcome to these negotiations. As Fiji was the first State to ratify the Convention on the Law of the Sea, in 1982, I feel gratified that, thanks to the efforts of many, including my own country, in resolving the outstanding problems, the Convention today enjoys universal support and near universal participation. All States benefit from the stability and certainty that has been achieved in the new regime of the Law of the Sea. By defining the jurisdiction of States in marine areas, and by setting out the rights and duties of States, the Convention represents an important contribution to international peace and security. The institutions established under the Convention, namely the International Seabed Authority and the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, and the work being done with respect to the oceans in the United Nations itself, require the support of the international community if the achievements of the Convention are to be consolidated and its promise of benefits to the peoples of the world is to be realized. Last year, I lent my strong support to an early adoption of the draft United Nations declaration of the rights of indigenous peoples. I renew my call here. We are informed in the United Nations Development Programme's Human Development Report 1997 about the bleak future for indigenous people in almost all societies where they are to be found. It is a great tragedy indeed 19 that indigenous people have seen their values and customs destroyed by incoming population. They face discrimination in employment and disparities in education and they fare worse in the non-income dimensions of poverty. The observation of the International Decade of the World's Indigenous People, the programme of activities associated with it and the efforts of the international community to prepare a draft United Nations declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples, will mean little or nothing if the indigenous people remain a disadvantaged people in our world. The United Nations Voluntary Fund for Indigenous Populations, however meaningful, is a mere drop in the ocean of what is required to really facilitate the development of the indigenous people. The World Bank programme to assist indigenous people is too limited in scope and application. The Member States of the United Nations and the international community should do more. The survival of the indigenous people is at stake. My own country is the home of two indigenous groups, Fijians and Rotumans, but it is also the home of others who came into our country more recently. These newcomers represent nearly half the population of my country. A major challenge for us has been to accommodate the interests and aspirations of these citizens and to reconcile them with the sensibilities, perceptions and pre-eminent status of our indigenous people. We are ensuring peaceful co-existence and cooperation with security and respect for the fundamental rights of all our citizens. It gives me great pleasure to address briefly recent developments in my own country, Fiji, before this Assembly. Our delegation has kept the Assembly up to date with political developments in our country, in particular our efforts to formulate a new Constitution that is acceptable to all the ethnic communities in the country. Our current Constitution, the 1990 Constitution, was promulgated to secure adequate representation in Parliament for the indigenous people in order to guarantee, protect and enhance their future in their country. That Constitution was reviewed by a Commission last year. Following the submission of the report of the commission, a Parliamentary Select Committee comprising representatives of all the political parties in our Parliament gave due consideration to the report and reached a consensus to amend the 1990 Constitution. The changes were written into the Constitution Amendment Bill of 1997 which was unanimously approved by the House of Representatives and the Senate and signed into law by our President on 25 July 1997. The amended Constitution comes into effect on 27 July 1998. I do not intend to provide all of the details of the new Constitution, except to say that it contains an entrenched Bill of Rights guaranteeing and protecting the equal rights and fundamental freedoms of all individuals and groups, irrespective of race, religion, gender or economic status. In addition to an independent judiciary, citizens will also have recourse to an ombudsman and a human rights commission in the protection of their basic rights. The Constitution continues to enshrine the full right of self-determination of the indigenous Fijian and Rotuman people, including their right to maintain a separate system of administration to safeguard their interests and welfare. A unique feature of the Constitution is the inclusion of a Compact which recognizes certain principles, including the following: the preservation of the ownership of land, including the ownership of indigenous Fijian land according to Fijian custom; the right of all persons to practice their religion freely and to retain their language, culture and tradition; and a commitment by all political parties and their leaders to cooperate in the formation of a broadly based Government to ensure that the interests of all communities in Fiji's multi-ethnic and multi-cultural society are taken fully into account. Indeed, an innovative feature of our new Constitution is the provision for the formation of a multi- party Government. This is to allow for the representation in Cabinet of all political parties that secure seats in Parliament through general elections. We have no doubt - in fact, we are very confident - that with the commitment, goodwill and cooperation of all, this pioneering approach of bringing all communities together in national decision-making, in government and in Parliament, is the best way of consolidating and promoting enduring peace, unity and progress in our little country of Fiji. From our ethnic and cultural diversity, we are determined to build a strong nation with the full participation of all citizens and communities in it. We are the world. We who are gathered here represent the Governments and peoples of the world. We have it in our power to facilitate economic development and sustained economic growth that include the full and equal participation of the developing countries of the world. Let us make it an international imperative. Today I call on all of us to rededicate ourselves anew to our commitment to the United Nations. Upon the high principles of mutual love, justice and care on which it was established, let us together make our world a better place in which to live.  ﻿I should like to begin by congratulating the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko, on his election as President of General Assembly at its fifty-second session. This is a compelling acknowledgment of the high international esteem in which Ukraine is held and of Mr. Udovenko’s personal qualities and extensive experience. At the same time, I should like to express gratitude to the President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session, Ambassador Razali Ismail, who made a significant contribution to the successful guidance of that session. It is particularly important for us to be making this statement today from this lofty rostrum. Five years have passed since Georgia became a full-fledged Member of the United Nations. I believe that the time has come to assess the development of Georgian statehood, as well as the results of our full-fledged participation in and active cooperation with the United Nations. In this five-year period our country has travelled from civil war, chaos, economic collapse and rampant crimes to ever increasing stability, the establishment of democratic institutions and tangible economic progress. The fact that we have been able to emerge with dignity from the most critical phase in our independent development is, to a large extent, to the credit of the United Nations and its specialized agencies, which provided Georgia not only with moral support but with specific and timely financial and technical assistance. We shall always remember that with particular gratitude. We understand what a responsible task the United Nations has as it “strives to articulate an inclusive vision: community among nations, common humanity among peoples, the singularity of our only one Earth.” (A/51/950, para. 1) The criterion for the formation of such a vision is the destiny of each people and every State, including Georgia, whose recent history fully and clearly reflects all the virtues and flaws of the present world order. Georgia can thus serve as a model with regard to the need to implement long-awaited changes and radical reforms within the United Nations system. It is precisely on this subject that I wish to share my views. The global post-confrontational development following the end of cold war has not, unfortunately, been 20 as simple as had been expected. We have stressed on numerous occasions, including from this rostrum, that the global confrontation between two systems has given way to equally dangerous local and intra-State conflicts that carry within them the potential for enormous destruction, thereby posing the same global challenge to international security. One of the manifestations of this dangerous trend is the aggressive separatism that has plagued my country and several other newly independent States. We have also pointed out that the United Nations and other international organizations should act in a manner that takes account of these changes. Unfortunately, our recent experience shows that, as a result of somewhat entrenched attitudes, these realities are frequently misunderstood. The main obstacle to the strengthening and development of our statehood and to the full implementation of economic reforms continues to be the lack of a settlement of the conflicts in Abkhazia and the Tskhinvali region. The situation in Abkhazia is particularly worrying. About 300,000 refugees and displaced persons from Abkhazia are still unable to return to their homes. These people, whom fate has not treated kindly, are already beginning to lose hope for a peaceful settlement of the conflict. We are obliged to note that, regrettably, the conflict in Abkhazia has become a kind of touchstone exposing the inadequacy of United Nations efforts. We therefore continue to insist on the need to find a new approach that can give a new impetus to the dialogue. We welcome the vigorous steps being taken to strengthen the role of the United Nations in settling the conflict in Abkhazia, Georgia. We have embraced with hope and optimism the new initiatives put forward by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. We would like to stress in particular that we attach importance to the resumption of the Geneva negotiations between the parties to the conflict, under the auspices of the United Nations and with the participation of the Russian Federation as facilitator, the group of Friends of the Secretary-General on Georgia and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). We are confident that the Geneva process will not only promote a settlement of the conflict, but will also reveal the transformational role that the United Nations can play under the new conditions. Here I must express deep gratitude to the President of Ukraine, His Excellency Mr. Leonid Kuchma, who, from this lofty rostrum expressed support for the efforts of the United Nations in Abkhazia and reaffirmed Ukraine’s readiness to participate directly. The establishment of a United Nations standby force would be very useful in developing the potential for United Nations peacekeeping operations to prevent the escalation of conflicts in a timely manner. Such forces would be on constant standby. We believe that such a system must include a technically well-equipped and appropriately staffed headquarters. It would be responsible for the evaluation and assessment of emerging conflict situations. On the basis of such assessments United Nations rapid-reaction forces, which have yet to be established, could be quickly sent to zones of conflict. We are confident that, had such forces existed five years ago, the tragic development of the conflict in Abkhazia could have been prevented. As the vicissitudes of the conflict in Abkhazia, Georgia, have shown, there is still a need for clearly coordinated joint actions between the United Nations and regional and international organizations for the settlement of conflicts. The absence of such a practice considerably reduces the effectiveness of the peacekeeping efforts of our community. Georgia’s experience provides a positive example of cooperation between the United Nations and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. This cooperation includes the joint United Nations-OSCE office for monitoring human rights in Abkhazia and the programme for the economic rehabilitation of the Tskhinvali region, proposed and implemented by the United Nations Development Program. I also believe that we should seriously consider the proposal of the acting Chairman of the OSCE, by which the State chairing that Organization would automatically join the group of Friends of the Secretary-General on Georgia, thereby promoting and increasing cooperation between the United Nations and the OSCE. We believe that there is a need to welcome the process of cooperation between the United Nations and regional international organizations, which has already begun. We should also reconsider the important concept of post-conflict peace-building. We are sometimes prisoners of stereotyped notions of a phased approach to settling conflicts, and as a result we sometimes fail to notice how thin the line is between establishing peace and peacekeeping itself. In the process of conflict settlement it is more effective to use elements of post-conflict peace- building, including them in the strategy of peacekeeping operations. Elements of post-conflict peace-building such as social and economic rehabilitation of conflict zones and the establishment of a basis for their further development would facilitate confidence-building between the parties involved and create a favourable social and 21 economic environment for the achievement of a final political settlement. We believe that the United Nations should remain actively seized of this matter. The creation of a special fund would allow the United Nations potential for post-conflict peace-building to be strengthened. “Development dividends” could provide one source of revenue for this. On the other hand, the fund could also consider the economic interests of the parties to the conflict, and on that basis develop relevant projects, thereby assisting in conflict prevention. The uniqueness and indispensability of the United Nations as a central and multilateral mechanism of cooperation in the post-confrontational world must first and foremost be manifested in its leading role in the creation of a qualitatively new comprehensive system of security, stability and development. The most important role here must be played by a global system of economic security, the formation of which should run parallel with the development of the process of world integration. A characteristic feature of today’s world is that formerly isolated historico-geographic regions are gradually overcoming their isolation and are cooperating to create a shared global infrastructure of human activities. Therefore, regional economic unions should be viewed as a driving force of the mechanisms for building such an infrastructure. For example, the Caucasus region clearly demonstrates the potential of the so-called graded model of global integration. I refer, in the first place, to subregional cooperation within the framework of a given region and, further, in the light of the geo-strategic situation of the Caucasus, to its role as a link for interregional cooperation, namely between Europe and Asia. Such a structure for integration, such a global model is in keeping with the realities of our day. We believe that the coordinating role of the United Nations in this process can be very effective. Such a vision of the role of the Caucasus region has already been embodied in the concept of the Euro-Asian corridor, a kind of Silk Road for the twenty-first century. This historic conduit for trade, the importance of which is continuing to grow and gain in recognition, is already working and proving its effectiveness. Similar corridors present a unique opportunity for the establishment of new material and cultural values and for bringing economies and cultures together. On this basis, they must — and, unquestionably, will — also play an important role in the establishment and strengthening of stability in the region. Georgia has been called upon to actively promote the implementation of this concept. Even a superficial glance at a map shows the strategic importance of geopolitical and geo-economic dimensions of this central conduit for world trade. Therefore, we express our readiness to cooperate with all those who are interested in making it a reality. The broad functions of the United Nations as a universal organization are the basis for the initiatives spelled out by Secretary-General Kofi Annan in his report “Renewing the United Nations: A Programme for Reform”. First and foremost, we believe there is a need to focus on the treaty defining the international legal profile of today’s world order: the Charter of the United Nations. Conceived under specific circumstances, it provided a mechanism that was aimed, for the most part, at prevention and settlement of conflicts between States. As a result, the United Nations has often reacted inadequately to such challenges as the numerous conflicts occurring within States. The principles that constituted the basis for traditional peacekeeping operations, in particular the concept of consent of the parties, are often untenable in cases of so-called ethnic conflict. This leads us to the idea that the Charter to a great extent needs to be rethought and made to conform to current realities. In this regard, Georgia supports the creation of a ministerial commission to study the necessity of fundamental reforms in the Charter and in those legal documents that define the mandates of the United Nations specialized agencies. Georgia also supports the proposal for the appointment of a First Under-Secretary-General who would be called upon to play a special role in ensuring the success of programmes and plans of the various functional sectors of the Secretariat. Undoubtedly, the crux of the United Nations reforms is the enlargement of the Security Council and the improvement of the activities of the General Assembly and of the other main bodies. Also important is the question of the optimal reallocation of authority between the General Assembly and the Security Council. In this respect, we reaffirm our unwavering position concerning the inclusion of Germany and Japan among the permanent members of the Security Council and also concerning the enlargement of the Council, including adding one seat for the Eastern European countries. 22 We favour growing transparency in the work of the Security Council. From our point of view, it is important that concerned States be able to participate in informal consultations of the Council, at which substantive discussions take place and decisions are taken. The international community should also be equipped with reliable tools of justice to enable it to react not only to unlawful actions of States but also to those of individuals who have perpetrated crimes against humanity. In this connection, we call upon all the Member States to do all they can to conclude successfully the diplomatic conference and to adopt a treaty on the establishment of an international criminal court by 1998. In closing I would like to recall the initiative of the Secretary-General to hold a special session of the General Assembly in the year 2000, as a “millennium Assembly”. Very little time remains before mankind enters the new millennium, and we must do everything we can to see to that the reformed United Nations becomes a genuinely new United Nations for the world order of the coming century. I am confident that Georgia, together with other States, will occupy a worthy place in it, as a democratic and prosperous country.  ﻿First of all, I would like to congratulate the President on his election to his high office, which convincingly proves that the international prestige of Ukraine, one of the founders of the United Nations, is widely recognized. For the current session, which is being held in the spirit of renewal of this world forum, it is very symbolic. I also with to express our appreciation to the previous President, Mr. Razali Ismail, for his considerable contribution to the successful work of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. Kazakhstan believes that in the twenty-first century the United Nations should become a highly effective instrument that will help to make a smooth transition to real multipolarity, establish global economic partnership and democratize international relations. For our part, we stand ready to contribute to the adoption within the United Nations of important decisions on the urgent issues of today. The Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, has undertaken to carry out a daunting mission of reforming the Organization. Nothing could be harder than to live in times of change; it is all the harder to be the maker of the changes. This is why we are fully on the side of the man at the head of the United Nations, and we welcome his initiatives and his course of action. Kazakhstan supports the Secretary-General’s proposals regarding a more efficient leadership and management structure, a new management culture and structural transformations within the Organization. We support measures taken by the United Nations to ensure sustainable development. In our view, the proposed United Nations Development Group deserves endorsement. At the same time, it is important to preserve the independence and the distinctiveness of the funds and programmes that are being consolidated, especially the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), a reputable organization that is doing so much for the sake of children, including its work in Kazakhstan. The financial crisis of the United Nations is an urgent issue demanding a solution. The programme of reforms proposed by the Secretary-General provides for measures to redress the situation in which the Organization has found itself. There is no doubt that the improvement of the financial situation of the United Nations depends on the fulfilment by Member States of their obligations to the Organization. Despite the economic difficulties of the transition period, Kazakhstan is trying to honour its financial obligations. At the same time, we consider it imperative to further improve the scale of assessment on the basis of real ability to pay. Kazakhstan, as one of the States that have joined the system of stand-by arrangements, supports the strengthening of the Organization’s capacity to carry out preventive and peacekeeping activities. We welcome the Secretary-General’s proposals on the issues of disarmament and regulation of armaments, and we support his measures regarding human rights, organized crime, drugs and terrorism. Kazakhstan is ready to join in efforts to strengthen the role of the General Assembly in dealing with burning international issues. Our country is in favour of convening a special “Millennium Assembly” in the year 2000. This idea is in consonance with President Nursultan 17 Nazarbaev’s initiative to convene on the eve of the twenty- first century a special session of the General Assembly devoted to reform. In our opinion, United Nations reforms should be carried out in an integrated manner, at different levels and in different directions. At the same time, it is impossible to ignore that the key element of these reforms is the reform of the Security Council itself. Kazakhstan has repeatedly declared its support for Germany and Japan as candidates for permanent membership of the Council. Supporting the enlargement of the Council in both categories of its members, we believe it is possible to include as its permanent members representatives of the developing countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America in order to ensure a balance of interests and an adequate reflection of existing geopolitical realities. It is important to keep in mind, however, that to preserve the Security Council’s efficiency, the number of its members should be limited. At the same time, we think it is necessary to show proper respect and to pay attention to other proposals coming from other States. Kazakhstan has on several occasions used this high rostrum to stress the need to strengthen the United Nations activities in the area of the environment. For our country these activities have special importance. For this reason, addressing the nineteenth special session of the United Nations General Assembly last June, the President of Kazakhstan once again drew the attention of the international community to the acute environmental problems inherited by our country. I refer to ecological disaster areas of the Aral Sea and the former Semipalatinsk nuclear testing ground. The problem of the Aral Sea has a global dimension. Particles of salt sediments from this region have been found in Europe, as well as in the Arctic Ocean. The Aral Sea region is witnessing a disastrous shortage of fresh water, a worsening of the population’s health and the degradation of the natural environment. Some 470 nuclear explosions have been conducted at the Semipalatinsk testing ground, which used to be the largest in the world. Enormous damage has been caused to the health of the population and the natural environment. We believe that nuclear weapons represent a tragedy that affects all the peoples of the world. With that in mind, our Head of State has spoken about the responsibility of the nuclear Powers for the damage caused to the population and the natural environment of the States where nuclear tests were conducted. Such responsibility could be shouldered by setting up an international fund for the rehabilitation of the health of the population and the environment of the regions affected by nuclear-weapon tests. Our President’s decision to close the Semipalatinsk testing ground should be considered as a major contribution to nuclear disarmament of historic significance. This month Kazakhstan hosted an international conference on nuclear non-proliferation, initiated by President Nazarbaev. Participants visited the former testing ground and became further convinced of the need to assist Kazakhstan, which is overcoming the consequences of nuclear tests conducted for more than half a century. In this respect, the strengthening of environmental security has the highest priority for the region of Central Asia. Accordingly, at a meeting held in Almaty last February, the Heads of the Central Asian States adopted a Declaration proclaiming 1998 a Year of Environmental Protection in our region and highlighting the need to establish a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia. We are grateful to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his support for the idea of establishing such a zone, in his message addressed to the participants in the Semipalatinsk conference. As a party to the Non-Proliferation Treaty, Kazakhstan is firmly committed to the non-proliferation regime, and considers it important to actively contribute to its further strengthening. Our State vigorously supports the objectives of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. We believe that the signing of this document was one of the most important and historic events of this century, which is nearing its end. We call on all States to adhere to this Treaty. Recognizing the importance of a deep reduction in the number of conventional weapons having indiscriminate effects, Kazakhstan took a decision to declare a moratorium, effective 6 August 1997, on the export of anti-personnel mines, including the re-export and transit thereof. Kazakhstan has taken consistent steps to strengthen security and stability at the regional level. Nursultan Nazarbaev’s initiative to convene a Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia, first put forward at the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly, is shaping up on the practical plane. We are planning to convene, in 1998, a meeting of 18 Foreign Ministers of interested States to discuss security issues in Asia. The formation of a Central Asian battalion under the auspices of the United Nations has become a factor of stability in the Central Asian region and provides clear evidence of the implementation of the proposal made by our Head of State. Recently, its first exercises were successfully conducted in Kazakhstan. The signing of unique agreements between Kazakhstan, Russia, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and the People’s Republic of China on confidence-building measures and the reduction of armed forces in the border region should be considered as a major achievement in the area of international security. We note with satisfaction the signing in June of the General Agreement on the Establishment of Peace and National Accord in Tajikistan, which represents a significant breakthrough in the settlement, under the auspices of the United Nations, of the longest-running conflict among the post-Soviet countries. Kazakhstan is one of the guarantors of the peace process in Tajikistan. We believe that all those concerned should ensure the adoption of practical measures to facilitate the implementation of the agreements concluded, the delivery of international humanitarian assistance and the reconstruction of the national economy. We are seriously concerned by the continued armed confrontation in Afghanistan. We in Kazakhstan are convinced that peace in that country can be achieved through political negotiations, under the auspices of the United Nations, between all the parties involved in this conflict in order to establish peace and form a Government of national unity in that country, which has suffered so much. Kazakhstan, which is committed to the ideas of renewal, has firmly embarked on a course of economic reform and the democratization of social life. Reforms in our country have become irreversible. The privatization of the economy is being completed, the level of inflation has been steadily low, the national currency is stable and liquid, and for the first time in a little more than five years of independence we have registered economic growth. Kazakhstan is open to the outside world and offers considerable investment opportunities. Our State is leading the Commonwealth of Independent States in per capita foreign investments. We strongly believe that very soon Kazakhstan will firmly take its place in global integration processes and become a fully fledged member of major economic associations and organizations. We should like to express our appreciation to the United Nations for its support for President Nazarbaev’s proposal to create a joint body for Central Asia under two regional Commissions, the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (ECE) and the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP). In a few days’ time, the heads of these Commissions will come to our country. A special ECE- ESCAP programme for Central Asian States is under way. A joint office of the two organizations is to be opened in Almaty. I would like to make special mention of the activities of the Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO). Seven new States, including Kazakhstan, joined ECO not very long ago. Nevertheless, the ECO member States have managed to reach promising levels of cooperation and interaction. The declaration adopted at the ECO summit last May provides an opportunity to create new transportation corridors and routes to transport hydrocarbons, and the ECO member States, as well as many other countries in Asia and Europe, are equally interested in their development. How the Organization will look when it enters the twenty-first century will depend on the decisions we take in the follow-up to our discussions of United Nations reform. Years ago, an enormous internal capacity was built into the United Nations Charter. The United Nations was designed for a world based on the principles of partnership and cooperation, not on all-out confrontation. Also important is the fact that the United Nations Charter, which might be called an institutional pillar of the Organization, is a highly balanced document, free of any visible bias in one direction or another, and this has allowed it to become, one might say, a code of modern international relations that no civilized State has any right to ignore. The decisions that are being taken should be as balanced as possible and should not amount to stop-gap and ad hoc measures. That is one of the main demands with regard to United Nations reform. The United Nations should come out of the reform process renewed, more effective and more efficient. ﻿Allow me to extend to Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko the sincere congratulations of my delegation on his election to the presidency of the fifty- second session of the General Assembly. It is with great pleasure that I assure him of Lesotho’s support and cooperation as he conducts the deliberations of this body. Let me also take this opportunity to pay a special tribute to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Razali Ismail, for the skilful manner in which he guided the work of the fifty-first session. My delegation truly appreciates his leadership and tireless dedication to the heavy responsibilities entrusted to him during the past year. On the eve of a new millennium, the United Nations is poised on the threshold of an era of momentous changes. During the first 52 years of its existence, the Organization witnessed several changes in the configuration of international relations. Some of them were traumatic, others benign. The survival of the United Nations through all these tribulations bears testimony not only to its resilience, but also to the enduring validity of its mission. But the continued success and relevance of the United Nations in the new millennium will depend in large measure on its capacity for self-renewal and on its readiness to meet its challenges in the environment of changed global circumstances. The Secretary-General has demonstrated his willingness and resolve to bring about the much-needed change. We applaud, at the outset, his bold and far reaching proposals on the reform of the United Nations. Many of his proposals, indeed, meet with the approval of my Government, and it is our hope that the General Assembly will see its way clear to receiving them in the same manner. Some, however, do need careful scrutiny to ensure that the ideal of cost-cutting can still be achieved without compromising the overriding objective of realizing higher efficiency and effectiveness of the Organization in the execution of its mandate. We urge that the totality of these proposals should be subjected to serious scrutiny at the appropriately high intergovernmental level, with a view to implementing those that enjoy wide support as expeditiously as possible. Our hope is that this can be done in a spirit of frankness and mutual understanding without the acrimony that so often characterizes our intergovernmental deliberations. During the last two sessions of the General Assembly, we have debated and arrived at a clear understanding of the United Nations reforms that will best serve the interests of the world community in the next millennium. The reform initiatives of the Secretary- General, which cover diverse aspects of the functioning of the Organization, are therefore a timely and welcome response to our collective call for a reoriented and revitalized United Nations. Lesotho, like other States of southern Africa, has gone through difficult political problems, which have largely been resolved. The outstanding problem is economic underdevelopment. We thus attach great importance to the United Nations role in development cooperation. We recognize the need to strengthen the capacity of the Secretary-General in this area by providing him with a deputy whose principal role, in our view, should be to coordinate the Organization’s efforts and to give direction to all entities of the United Nations involved in development cooperation. We fully support the initiative aimed at facilitating the unified and cooperative functioning of all the United Nations funds and programmes involved in development operations at the field level, while at the same time reinforcing and maintaining the distinct nature of these entities. The specialized funds and programmes within the United Nations system continue to constitute an important vehicle for advancing international development cooperation, particularly in the developing countries. The 14 enhanced coordination and pooling of resources and services among the specialized funds will not only lead to better planning but will also maximize programme impact and minimize administrative costs. Indeed, Lesotho has already made its own contribution, however small, towards reaching the ideal of a unified United Nations presence in the field. The Government of Lesotho, using its own national resources, has constructed a United Nations House office complex, which will accommodate all field representatives of the funds and programmes as well as other United Nations agencies in our capital. This House was inaugurated and handed over to the United Nations Resident Coordinator only five days ago, on 25 September 1997. The suggestion by the Secretary-General for the establishment of a $1 billion revolving fund also has its own merits. Let me, however, hasten to emphasize that there can be no substitute for a demonstrable commitment by all Member States to honour their treaty obligations by paying their assessed contributions on time, fully and unconditionally, in order to ensure the financial health of our Organization. We nevertheless believe that the proposed revolving fund can only be a short-term palliative. But such a fund should serve neither to exculpate those who renege on their treaty obligations nor to place an additional burden on countries that are already making sacrifices to honour their obligations in accordance with the Charter. As we approach the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, in 1998, the issue of the protection of human rights is assuming an increasing importance to all our countries because of its close linkage with democracy, peace and stability. My Government therefore welcomes the Secretary-General’s proposed reforms regarding the strengthening of the Organization’s role in the field of human rights. In this connection, we wish to urge that the consolidation of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Centre for Human Rights into one entity should not lead to the blurring of the distinction between the political functions of the High Commissioner and the purely technical functions of the Centre. The increasing globalization of organized crime, including trafficking in illicit drugs, continues to be a source of concern to the international community. It is for this reason that in our subregion, the countries of the Southern African Development Community are taking cooperative measures to combat the scourge of transnational organized crime. Lesotho believes that the proposal to establish in Vienna a high-profile United Nations office whose main focus would be on drug control and crime prevention should be given favourable consideration. With regard to the reform and restructuring of the Security Council, I can only reaffirm the view of the Lesotho Government that only equitable representation on the Security Council and an increase in its membership to no less than 26 can satisfy our aspirations. We share the view held by the majority of members of this body on the need for true democratization of the Security Council and the reform of its working methods, including the issue of the veto power. Such reform should take into account the principle of sovereign equality of States, as well as the need for transparency and accountability in the decision- making processes of the Security Council. Since the last session of the General Assembly, we have witnessed a number of developments in the international arena that augur well for world political stability and peace. Recently we all shared in the universal joy at the peaceful reunification of Hong Kong with its motherland. The United Kingdom and the People’s Republic of China ought to be congratulated for their significant contribution to world peace and for the valuable lesson that they have imparted to the world community in the sphere of resolution of disputes through dialogue. In our region, we have witnessed the birth of a new Democratic Republic of the Congo from the crucible of one of the most vicious dictatorships ever recorded in the annals of history. It is now for the international community to assist the people of the Democratic Republic of the Congo in their efforts aimed at economic reconstruction and the consolidation of democracy and accountability in their country. The acceptance of the Democratic Republic of the Congo into the Southern African Development Community at the beginning of this month was a signal of the determination of the countries of southern Africa to make their own positive contribution to the reconstruction efforts of the Congolese people. We are also greatly encouraged by the recent restoration of stability and democracy in Liberia through the assistance of neighbouring countries in that region. However, the reversion of Sierra Leone to a state of anarchy and chaos after the selfless efforts made by the international community to bring about stability in that country remains a source of great concern. Lesotho joins in the call by African States for the international 15 community to withhold recognition of the military junta in Sierra Leone and to remain steadfast in its resolve to restore democracy and constitutional legitimacy in that country. In Angola, the recalcitrance of the UNITA leadership continues to unravel the gains that had been made in the search for peace. The United Nations owes it to the people of Angola to enforce, through the Security Council, appropriate punitive measures against UNITA as a signal that those who stand in the way of peace can no longer be allowed to succeed. The recent events in the Middle East have cast a shadow on a future that seemed to hold promise for a negotiated peace. False moves have escalated tension in the region rather than abating it. We call upon Israel, as we have always done in the past, to fully implement all Security Council resolutions aimed at the peaceful settlement of the conflict in that region. All the parties to the conflict must recommit themselves to the peace process and refrain from any acts which might jeopardize a negotiated settlement. The continuous eruption of armed conflicts throughout the world, particularly in the developing countries, is a source of concern to all of us. These conflicts put a tremendous strain on the resources of the United Nations and on the Organization’s capacity to maintain international peace and security. Thus, we are encouraged by the positive attitude and the interest that some of the developed countries have in the recent years shown in cooperating with the Organization of African Unity towards enhancing Africa’s capacity in the field of conflict prevention. We also welcome Japan’s initiative to host an international conference on conflict prevention in Tokyo in January 1998. Taken in their totality, these initiatives underline the moral responsibility that rests on humanity to ensure that peoples everywhere enjoy the right to peace, development and the sanctity of life. Lesotho is generally encouraged by the progress that is being made in the field of disarmament with the recent signing of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and the ratification of the Chemical Weapons Convention. Despite the current relaxation of tension in international relations, disarmament must continue to be accorded high priority on the agenda of the international community with a view to achieving the total elimination of nuclear weapons. Africa has already contributed positively to the disarmament process by the signing, in Egypt, of the Pelindaba Treaty declaring Africa a nuclear-weapon-free zone. The recent international negotiations in Oslo regarding a ban on anti-personnel mines are also a step in the right direction. Lesotho fully supports the Ottawa process and urges all nations to associate themselves with it so that a truly global treaty banning the production and use of anti-personnel mines can be successfully concluded in December this year. Last year, the Assembly demonstrated the widespread and growing international support for a permanent international criminal court when it unanimously adopted resolution 51/207, which set mid- 1998 as the date for a diplomatic conference to finalize and adopt a convention on the establishment of such a court. We have been encouraged by the progress made during the last two sessions of the Preparatory Committee, held in February and in August. We appreciate the generous offer by the Italian Government to host the conference. The time has now come for the necessary arrangements for the convening of such a conference to be put in place, and reaffirming the June 1998 date will enable the Italian Government to proceed with the necessary logistical arrangements and ensure that the court is established before the end of the century. Lesotho fully and unreservedly supports that date. We remain convinced that the early establishment of the court will offer the advantage of a system that aims to serve the common global good by preventing local outbreaks of violence from becoming security crises with global repercussions, and to deter the continued recurrence of the genocide and other massive crimes against humanity that have haunted the world since Nuremberg and Tokyo. Members will recall the ninth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD IX), held two years ago in South Africa, whose main agenda item was on promoting growth and sustainable development in a globalizing and liberalizing economy. In the post-UNCTAD-IX period, a major challenge before us is to maximize the developmental impact of this globalizing and liberalizing world economy. This can be achieved only by ensuring that the risk of marginalizing and even excluding weaker nations from participating actively in international trade and commerce is avoided at all costs. 16 When we met during the nineteenth special session of the General Assembly, held only four months ago, we all expressed our deep concern that, compared to 1992, the overall trend regarding sustainable development in developing countries is worse today. Poverty and environmental degradation continue to afflict the lives of millions of people in many parts of the world. The staggering statistics only underline the need to strengthen the capacity of the United Nations to improve the lot of our disadvantaged peoples. In particular, they reaffirm that United Nations operational activities for development have a critical and unique role to play in enabling the developing countries to continue to lead the management of their own development process, and that the funds and programmes within the United Nations system continue to constitute important vehicles for advancing international development cooperation. It is in this spirit that we would support those efforts that are aimed at enhancing the effectiveness and the capacity of the funds and programmes in the area of development assistance. In conclusion, allow me to observe that with the vision that the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, has brought to the Organization within his short period in office, the United Nations can and will come to terms with the challenges that lie in the years ahead. The rationalization of the structures and working methods of our Organization will surely allow us to achieve our objectives.  ﻿May I first take this opportunity to congratulate my very good friend, the Foreign Minister of Ukraine, on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session and to convey to him the best wishes of Canada for a successful and productive association in this session. I know from our long personal contacts that the course of this important debate is in the best possible hands. Let me also take the opportunity to thank and congratulate Ambassador Razali for his tireless and effective leadership of the General Assembly at the fifty- first session. I come to the Assembly today with a sense of urgency and an abiding faith and belief that we are now emerging, not only from the shadows of the cold war, but also from the uncertainties of its aftermath. Around the world, we see countless examples of the basic principles and overall vision of the United Nations Charter being put into practice. The people of the world are laying the foundations of a new international system for the new millennium. Of course, I recognize that no part of the world is without its burdens of conflict, grief and personal suffering. Nor are there any great signs of relief from the growing burden of global economic inequities. What has changed, however, is the new international willingness to face the issues, to mobilize political will and to launch reforms. There is a sense, not of helplessness, but of hope. The old realities of power have not disappeared, but alongside them have appeared new forces, new coalitions and new ways of doing business — and these forces are impatient. As we have seen, in fact, in recent days, one person's vision and generosity can make a difference and stand as an inspiration to us all. This new spirit needs to be manifest and inspire the work of the United Nations. The Secretary-General has proposed a serious and far-sighted set of reforms. Canada strongly supports these proposals and accepts them as a package. They promise not simply greater efficiency, but, we hope, greater effectiveness. Based on our experiences in Canada, I can say with some authority that budget-cutting by itself is not the answer. There must be serious structural change to modernize existing institutions, both national and international, that were formed over 50 years ago. To undertake these reforms, solutions must be based on agreement and cooperation. Solutions cannot be imposed by one country or one group, but rather must be inspired by a sense of openness and innovation. In other words, we must establish a new compact amongst United Nations Members to set this Organization on a sound financial footing. As Mr. Udovenko has said, we are at a watershed, a defining moment for the Organization that can either provide new momentum or stall our advance. The direction we take is ours collectively to decide and the outcome in all our hands. We must not waste this opportunity. (spoke in French) Another defining moment, I believe, took place just over a week ago in Oslo. Ninety nations, spurred on by the efforts of the non-governmental organizations, agreed on the text of a treaty banning anti-personnel landmines. The treaty will be signed this coming December, just 14 months after it was first conceived. (spoke in English) While visiting the treaty discussions in Oslo, I was forcibly struck by how what has become known as the Ottawa process demonstrates the changed character of world affairs. Above all, it shows how the breakdown of the old bipolar world affords new opportunities for civil society, private individuals, to influence multilateral diplomacy. The focus of the Ottawa process 19 is a weapon that slaughters countless civilians, a weapon that has lost much of its military utility, whatever some may say. This illustrates the growing feeling, coming from the grass roots of the world community, that the engines of war designed for the twentieth century have no place in the twenty-first. I should say that this is not the only example of the new grass-roots activism which points to the emergence of a global commons as a powerful positive force of globalization. For example, Canadian women, appalled at the treatment of their sisters in Afghanistan, have started a letter-writing campaign. I will be delivering some 5,000 letters today to the Secretary-General, which call on him to take the lead in exposing the gross human rights violations of women in Afghanistan as unacceptable in the eyes of the world's citizens. The effectiveness of these new forces can be clearly measured. Nations from every region of the world have pledged to sign on to a complete ban on the stockpiling, production, export and use of anti-personnel landmines. We hope to see more join our ranks between now and December. For those who are still on the sidelines, we ask them to think hard and deep on this issue. Their engagement is crucial. By joining us, already a majority of United Nations Member States, they can help rid the world of this most inhumane weapon. (spoke in French) Canada recently announced its intention to destroy its remaining stocks of anti-personnel mines before signature of the treaty. We will also shortly ratify the amended Protocol II of the Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons. (spoke in English) This treaty constitutes a promise to future generations. But it does not resolve the equally grave problems posed by mines already in the ground, nor does it address the plight of those who have experienced directly their dreadful impact. Following the signing of the treaty, the international community will have an obligation to develop policies for an enhanced and coordinated approach to humanitarian demining, and to victim assistance and rehabilitation. This is, as much as anything else, a development issue. Heavily mined areas of the world cannot pursue economic development until they have been demined; and demining is a hopeless task if there is no treaty to prevent the laying of new mines. At Ottawa in December, we will invite nations to engage in a second phase of the campaign: a broad mobilization of groups and countries to tackle the aftermath of the landmines crisis. It is a monumental task, to be met only through the combined action of all States. We invite all present to join us. The generosity of private citizens such as Ted Turner, or of the Auto Workers' Union of Canada, and the commitment of those like Princess Diana must be matched, indeed surpassed, by the Governments of this world. It is important to ask what is behind this willingness to tackle these old problems in a new way? What has brought us to the intersection of high hopes and new strategies, and the real ability to effect change in the world, as exemplified by the landmines campaign? To my mind, these developments and, above all the recognition of the need to adopt new approaches, are in part a response to the changing face of war. In the second half of the twentieth century, we have seen one type of conflict become prevalent. These are wars fought within, not between, States; wars that tend to be long and bitter; and wars, above all, in which civilians suffer the most and children and women are often deliberately targeted. These are wars in which, in the words of Saint-Exupéry “the firing line passes through the hearts of people”. As this type of war increasingly accounts for the great majority of all conflicts, the distinctions that once informed the work of international diplomacy — between military security concerns and humanitarian or civil concerns — break down. This blurring of the lines, along with heightened media presence, has strongly affected international opinion. Fewer and fewer people are willing to view war as an acceptable instrument of state policy. In the light of these changes, the concept of human security, which I highlighted when I addressed the Assembly last year, takes on growing relevance. It is based on the premise that it is not enough to spare people from the “scourge of war” narrowly defined. Ensuring true, sustainable human security means tackling other severe threats: the unmet needs of more than a billion people living in poverty; attacks on human rights of individuals and groups within society; 20 transnational threats, such as crime and terrorism; and threats to health and livelihood through depletion or pollution of our resources. The problems of these new global issues will not wait for long-term solutions. It is urgent that we take action to prevent or reduce the incidence of conflict, to restore societies in the aftermath of conflict and to increase human security around the world. The priorities for action can, in my view, be grouped under three main headings: addressing issues which cut across traditional boundaries between areas of concern, such as we have in the landmines campaign; identifying and addressing the root causes of conflict; and improving our ability to respond to crises when we cannot prevent them. Let me talk about that first priority. Landmines are not the only complex, cross-cutting problem to be addressed if we are to reduce the impact of conflict. All too often it is small arms, rather than the major weapons systems targeted by our disarmament efforts, that cause the greatest bloodshed. In the hands of terrorists, criminals, the irregular militia and armed bands typical of internal conflict, these are the true weapons of mass terror. As with landmines, their victims are all too often civilians. We welcome the recent report of the United Nations Panel of Governmental Experts on Small Arms and discussions within the United Nations Disarmament Commission on disarming combatants as a step towards more lasting peace. These should serve as the launching pad from which to develop practical measures, in consultation with regional bodies. (spoke in French) To tackle this problem, the first steps must be to combat illicit trafficking in firearms and to bring greater transparency to the legal exportation of small arms. The Organization of American States (OAS) is currently working towards an Inter-American convention on illicit trafficking in firearms. Canada hopes that the OAS negotiations will result in an effective convention and will also inspire other regional bodies to take action. (spoke in English) Ridding the world of anti-personnel landmines and banning or limiting other forms of weapons directly reduce the human suffering caused by conflict. The other side of the same coin is building and enhancing human security. By building peace, reducing unsustainable military expenditures, promoting equitable and sustainable development and encouraging stable, democratic societies which respect human rights, we not only limit human suffering, but we also address the root causes of conflict itself. To do this requires solutions that are built from the inside, not imposed from the outside. Sustainable peace can be built only through the active cooperation and participation of Governments, peoples, and groups caught in the conflict itself. At the same time, a parallel effort is required to reform the United Nations development funds and programmes. Canada strongly supports the Secretary- General's reform proposals in this area. We place priority on improving coordination within the United Nations system at the country level, including among the specialized agencies and the Bretton Woods institutions, in order to maximize development impact. Canada, through diplomacy and development assistance, has supported peace-building activities in certain regions for many years. To give further impetus to this approach, last October I announced the Canadian peace-building initiative. Its aim is to coordinate Canadian programmes and policies in support of conflict prevention and resolution, peace-building and post-conflict reconstruction. A peace-building mechanism or fund has provided a rapid response mechanism in areas of conflict. Over the last six months, we have used this peace- building fund for the following purposes: to provide critical start-up funding for the historical clarification Commission in Guatemala; to assist the preparatory commission for the establishment of an international criminal court by underwriting the participation of delegates from developing countries; and to provide financial assistance for the work of the joint United Nations/Organization of African Unity (OAU) Special Representative for the Great Lakes region of Africa, Mr. Mohamed Sahnoun. In addition, Canada is prepared to contribute up to $500,000 from this fund for the establishment in Bosnia and Herzegovina of a non-governmental organization foundation to develop civil society on the basis of 21 multi-ethnic cooperation. I urge other members to join us in supporting this foundation. Finally, I am pleased to announce a Canadian contribution of $500,000 from the peace-building fund to the new United Nations Trust Fund for Preventive Action, created by the Secretary-General in response to a proposal from the Norwegian Government. A second promising area of work on the root causes of conflict lies in exploring the links between security and development, and particularly in reducing levels of military expenditures relative to economic and social spending. Last year Canada sponsored, together with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) a symposium on military expenditures in developing countries which brought together a wide range of experts who identified areas for further action: small- arms proliferation, about which I have just spoken, regional security, good governance and the rule of law. The United Nations has established important tools to build the confidence necessary for reductions in military spending, in the form of the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms and the United Nations standardized reports on national military expenditures. Much more work is needed, particularly at the regional level, to identify ways to reduce military spending and to redirect scarce national resources to the economic and social development goals. A third area of attention is work on conflict that comes from threats to environmental sustainability. Environmental problems have the capacity to imperil living standards and to endanger the well-being of future generations. For these reasons, Canada strongly supports new agreements on hazardous chemicals, including persistent organic pollutants, and will work to ensure the success of the new intergovernmental forum on forests. Combating desertification also remains a priority for us, and we have offered to host the Desertification Convention secretariat. The fourth and final promising area in addressing the root causes of conflict is human rights and good governance. Next year we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This is an opportunity for all of us to reaffirm strongly the fundamental importance of this document and our commitment to the common standards it sets out. In recognition of the importance of this anniversary, Canada will be sponsoring a broad programme of activities, including a major world conference on human rights and the Internet, to draw together work being done in many international forums, with a focus on strategies for using the new international telecommunications technology to increase respect for human rights. We are working on the development and publication of an annual report on the state of human rights worldwide, based on the findings of the United Nations independent human rights mechanisms. And we will hold a conference reviewing the impact of the 1993 Vienna Declaration, to be held by Canadian non-governmental organizations. Abuse of human rights is sometimes excused as necessary in the interests of stability and national security, but the facts show otherwise. Countries with democratic governments which respect the fundamental rights of their citizens are less likely to wage war on one another. They are also more likely over time to achieve high levels of economic development. Recognizing this, Canada has recently undertaken a series of new bilateral human rights initiatives. Our aim is to work with our counterparts in other countries to establish discussions between governments to foster exchanges between institutions devoted to the protection of human rights and civil-society initiatives and projects for the development of free media. We also fully support the Secretary-General’s proposals for reform measures to enhance United Nations work in human rights. And we welcome the appointment of Mary Robinson as High Commissioner for Human Rights, and offer her our support. As we move towards the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the challenges facing the international community, if anything, have increased. The trend towards targeting civilians in warfare has resulted in severe infringements of the basic rights of women and children. Too often we have seen children recruited as soldiers or women subjected to sexual assault as a deliberate weapon of terror. Canada continues to make the rights of the child and of women, both in conflict and in peace, a top 22 human rights priority, which we pursue actively in the United Nations and elsewhere. We welcome the appointment of Mr. Olara Otunnu as Special Representative to study the impact of armed conflict on children. We will shortly host a preparatory meeting for the main donor countries invited to the Oslo child labour conference. And domestically we have launched a Child Labour Challenge Fund to support the efforts of our private sector to address the problem of exploitative child labour. Nowhere is the link between human rights and human security clearer than in the issue of children’s rights. By protecting the basic rights of the world’s children, we are nurturing a future generation of citizens with both the means and the desire to live in peace. The final overall priority for action is crisis response. And despite our best efforts, there will be times when conflict looms, or when it cannot be prevented. These situations call for rapid, decisive action, whether to forestall conflict or contain it when it breaks out. These actions include not only peacekeeping and other military measures, but also humanitarian and judicial responses. To date, the international community appears to have identified the lessons that the missions to Somalia, Bosnia, Rwanda and Zaire have taught us, but not to have learned from them. In crisis situations, speed is the key to effective response. This is why Canada has been so active in efforts to develop a United Nations rapid- response and deployment capability, in particular a rapidly deployable mission headquarters here in New York. This would not only permit the timely insertion of military forces, but also integrate civilian and humanitarian organizations into mission planning and deployment. Canada hopes to see measurable progress on the rapidly deployable headquarters and on the Danish-led Standby Forces High-Readiness Brigade initiative. These improvements to the United Nations rapid-response capability are complementary, feasible and should be implemented without delay. Let us learn our lesson, and not ignore it once again. In addition to rapid military and humanitarian reaction, a key element of the United Nations response to conflict is the application of justice and the international rule of law. Canada strongly supports the timely establishment of an independent, effective international criminal court. In order to be effective, the court must have inherent jurisdiction over the core crimes of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. In order to be independent, the court must not be precluded from dealing with matters on the Security Council agenda. In conclusion, let me say that, as we all recognize, the United Nations was originally established as an instrument of international peace. Since that time, war has put on a new face. More and more, it has targeted primarily civilian populations. If the United Nations is to be effective — and I believe that the need for effective multilateralism has never been greater — the United Nations must adapt to this changing face of war. At the same time, the United Nations must also recognize that it, too, has changed at its very foundation. Both its membership and its mandate have expanded, and the growing importance of United Nations development and humanitarian activities have made their mark. Clearly, it is time for concerted reflection on the purpose and functioning of this body that we have built together — including on the difficult issues of financing and reform of the Security Council. The reform and expansion of the Security Council is a major undertaking of direct concern to all Member States. The long-term implications must be fully debated and carefully weighed, and the process must be fair and open. It must attract a broad consensus and cannot be rushed to accommodate other goals — including a short-term solution to the United Nations financial crisis. Canada wants to see a Security Council that is effective, transparent, broadly representative and, above all, less elitist and more democratic. The primary criteria for membership should be commitment to the ideals and undertakings of the United Nations and a willingness to remain always accountable to the full membership of this Assembly. Broader United Nations reform must necessarily fail so long as Member States continue to demand more of a system to which they contribute less. Effective leadership and moral authority are rooted in respect for undertakings and obligations freely entered into by Member States. It is the responsibility of each and every Member to pay its dues. These obligations apply in full, on time and without conditions. Looking ahead, there may be a time when we will choose to reconsider aspects of the current financial underpinnings of the United Nations. Indeed, we may 23 collectively decide that in order to broaden responsibilities and share power in ways that better reflect current international realities, some adjustments to the scale of assessments are warranted. Such decisions, however, can be neither prejudged nor presumed, and would no doubt be influenced by the commitment of those advocating such changes to the broader purposes of this Organization. The international context in which the United Nations functions has changed profoundly. Around the world, people are reshaping the way they live — be it by seeking more food, better air or greater democracy. Crucial to this massive transformation is the search for security, through both the reduction of conflict and the building of a better life in times of peace. The United Nations has long symbolized these dual hopes, for escape from “the scourge of war” and for “better standards of life in larger freedom”. I close my remarks today on a note of hope, quoting President Václav Havel of the Czech Republic, who said, “Hope is definitely not the same thing as optimism. It is not a conviction that something will turn out well, but the certainty that something makes sense, regardless of how it turns out.” Our hope lies in the certainty that the United Nations, as the standard-bearer of international values, of a sense of multilateralism and of a sense of cooperation and partnership, makes sense for all of us. This must spur us on in this Assembly for the challenges that lie ahead.   ﻿The tragedy of the millions of human beings who are suffering the ravages of poverty affects Panama very deeply. This is a deplorable scourge which has reached intolerable levels. Those of us present here are facing the shameful paradox of having produced the highest level of wealth ever known to mankind while at the same time having the highest level of unemployment in our economies in history. Poverty and exclusion are the battlefronts that call for political and moral will. From this standpoint, Panama is concerned that the tenor of this debate on the financial or military attributes of the many aspirants to membership of the Security Council may make us forget why the Organization was created. Panama, a founding Member of the United Nations, signed the Charter of the United Nations to give a voice to those who had been silenced by colonialism and to those who clamoured for justice, freedom and 18 development; to restore dignity to peoples such as mine that had been deprived of their sovereign rights; and to give those who had been discriminated against and persecuted the right to dream about a better world in which no one would be hated for the color of his skin or his beliefs, or for being part of a given ethnic group, or of one gender or the other. Panama signed that beautiful document, a tribute to the humble of the Earth, in order to give democratic institutions, civil and political rights and multilateral forums to all those people — men and women of good will — who did not want war to return, destroying their homes, legacies, cities and towns and plots of land. They also did not want to see war rub out entire generations by sacrificing them to obsession, fanaticism and extremism. Like many others here, Panama signed the San Francisco Charter so that the poor of the world and those suffering from disease and malnutrition would have two of the simplest and most moving of human attributes: faith and hope. The more than 50 years that have passed since then have brought about considerable advances that have changed the face of the world. Many of them would not have been possible, however, if cooperation had not imprinted a new meaning and purpose on our Organization. In fact, few vestiges of colonialism remain to be solved; ethnic groups and nationalities, prohibited cultures and the prosecuted now work together in pride to design a polychromatic world that calls for equality in difference and tolerance towards diversity. The number of nations which are Members of the United Nations has increased three-fold, and its agenda reflects their pain, suffering, struggles and aspirations. Its orientation and contents have changed, and everyone has been given a forum in which to express his opinions and find support and understanding. If a planning board had tried to identify, as is now proposed, which problem had priority and deserved attention, financing and debate, the Security Council would never have met in my country, Panama, nor would that event have changed so decisively the course of negotiations when Panama attempted to regain its sovereignty and its Canal. There are important achievements in the daily life of the United Nations. However, none of them would have been possible if the United Nations had not attained the quality, the representative nature and the legitimacy that it has achieved through universality. It must be recognized that there remain unacceptably acute differences and deficiencies, which are becoming more serious and are constantly and forcibly knocking at the very doors of our homes. At the same time, thousands of people are dying before our very eyes because of hunger, intolerance, hatred, terrorism, fratricidal warfare, authoritarianism and violence; thousands of children are looking at us through television screens with languid and sad eyes, only to become mere statistics at the end of the programme. There are still those who peddle illusions, who would have us believe that conflicts reside at the end of a rifle and that they can be resolved by having more powerful rifles. The figures on what the world spends on weapons are so disproportionate when compared to expenditures for development that only mentioning them makes us ashamed. We should have already learned the lesson that when people are motivated, for whatever reason, there is no bullet or defence system, no matter how sophisticated, that can eliminate the causes of conflict; that the instruments of force can lower the fever but they cannot eliminate the turmoil which causes it; and that there is no military solution to social and political problems. History, life's teacher, shows us that violence usually is the result, not the cause, of conflict; that war is more often than not the symptom rather than the cause of the ills; and that the only way to resolve conflicts and the violence that goes along with them is to act on their true, underlying causes: hunger, malnutrition and extreme poverty and the lack of means to overcome them; ethnic, gender and cultural discrimination; intolerance and authoritarianism; fundamentalism and political and religious persecution; unemployment, slave labour and immoral salaries; humiliation and national oppression. The majority of us who came here over 50 years ago, as well as the many who arrived later, did so in order to find solidarity and to take refuge in the realm of law, not to shield ourselves in a new military alliance or to take shelter in the shadow of a cannon. Circumstances then forced us to live under an ominous nuclear balance which made the interrelations of military forces the determining factor in international relations. 19 Today — under a completely different setting in which the balance of power is measured in terms of the potential and economic strength of markets — nothing compels us to continue to live under the model of the cold war. The greatest impending threat to international peace and security is poverty, whose reach is as extensive as that of the most pervasive of plagues. Which current or future Security Council member's army will be able to put an end to the threat if it is the mother of all illnesses and resentments and harvests more human lives than any bacteria, virus or ancient or modern plague? If what we are contemplating is a resurgence of the old and festering conflicts which were frozen by the cold war, would we not be substituting the ancient balance of bipolar nuclear terror for a new and expanded military alliance to resolve those conflicts under the umbrella of the United Nations? Panama certainly does not believe that force is not necessary as a deterrent, nor are we unaware that such a tool in responsible hands is useful, particularly when it is legitimated by world-wide consensus, as the Charter proposes. What concerns us is that most of the discussion in the world about the reform of the United Nations disproportionately stresses the use of force and disregards what is important, and indeed imperative — that is to say, cooperation for development. Hence, to assert that the most important function of the United Nations is to have a big force to maintain international peace and security, while at the same time proposing the reduction, streamlining and elimination of the Organization's social and humanitarian components, raises important questions about the final nature of our reform and modernization exercise. To maintain that financial and material contributions to peacekeeping operations should be decisive in determining who can and who cannot sit on the Council, while at the same time stating that social and humanitarian tasks, development programmes and environmental protection programmes should be placed in other kinds of management and organization categories, greatly concerns us. This compendium of proposals must be rebalanced and given its proper dimension. If what we are going to discuss is the package, then the only one we should talk about is the package of the fundamental principles of the United Nations already enshrined in the Charter. From that integral perspective, the purpose of politically and financially strengthening the Organization, and the Security Council in particular, is to ensure that it can fully discharge its major mission: the promotion of social and economic and human development as the most effective way to prevent conflicts. The profound developments in the last 50 years have changed the international community. The deepest change has occurred in the parameters of, and the language used to define, relations among countries. The Powers of the past no longer exist, and new Powers are emerging — even though there are obvious military weaknesses. It is no longer war that marks the trend towards contemporary development or the course or content of international life. Why organize the United Nations on the basis of what no longer exists? Now it is peace, trade, the sharing of the fruits of knowledge and technology, and the deep changes designed to ensure higher levels of tolerance and open-mindedness that are features of international coexistence. It is not military tools to prevent war that have to be strengthened but, rather, the tools to build peace, to achieve international cooperation, as is stated in the Charter, in solving international problems of an economic, social, cultural, or humanitarian character, and in promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms for all (Article 3). International peace is not guaranteed by rifles or cannons, or by one or several allied Powers. This has been proved by recent, and not so recent but no less painful, experiences. The small and brave country Uruguay, which makes the highest per capita contribution for peace-keeping, has taught us such a good lesson in this respect. If it is true that the greatest restriction on creativity, thought and intelligence is dialectically established by language itself, then we have to cast aside once and for all the language and the thinking process left over from the cold war. We must design something that more appropriately represents what we wish to do. Panama does not feel that its juridical status has been diminished when it acknowledges that some countries have special attributes or can better discharge the tasks of the Security Council. On the one hand, the problem is to define these tasks, to determine whether 20 what we want is a guardian or a promoter of development and cooperation. On the other hand, the problem relates to the degree of responsibility a member of the Council has vis-a-vis the rest of us. For, if its membership of the Council is based solely on its individual attributes — rejecting any kind of representation of us — then it can sit in that seat in the Council until someone simply wrests the seat from it by violence. Everything indicates that we should define these tasks in a coherent manner in keeping with the whole set of purposes of the United Nations. From this standpoint, each region has to determine the degree of representativity and responsibility that its members should have, as well as who can occupy those seats. It is difficult to think that after the Members of the United Nations have acquired such long and productive experience of working in regional groups and organizations, everything would be discarded in order to vote for a country on an individual basis. We would like to know what benefit there would be in reigning in a vacuum. Furthermore, neither ideological nor military blocs appear any longer on the map of the world, nor should geographical distribution alone. These have been nothing but obsolete instruments which have served to draw simplistic and arbitrary borders and, hence, to face us at times with tragedies. This new international reality must be fully recognized. The new borders that are now forming are trade, ethnic, religious, and cultural borders, and it is precisely because they were disregarded during the cold war that we are still faced today with all these upheavals. It is those upheavals that seduce even the most conservative among us into being guided by one of the left-over thoughts of the bipolar world — vis pacem para bellum. On the other hand, if we really feel comfortable with one-third of the membership not rotating and two-thirds of the membership rotating, then it would be sane and judicious for any expansion to maintain those proportions, which practice has shown to be efficient and which have been agreed to. Why, then, should we go on using language that draws a distinction between the regular budget and the peacekeeping budget? This accounting dichotomy became a policy and crudely revealed how individual interests could separate the package from the founding principles, to such an extent that they would be truly contradictory. There are those who say that it is shameful for the regular budget to have to be financed out of the peacekeeping budget. I would say that it is even more shameful that the disproportion in amounts, both in payments and in voluntary contributions, is so overwhelming that the social and humanitarian functions are now secondary to the security functions, as if, in the final analysis, civic-action programmes are dependent upon military operations. This reflects the unstated reversal of focus between the secondary: the operations for the maintenance of security, and the primary: the human-development programmes. A single budget, which conforms to a periodically agreed-upon political strategy, should respond in each case to the changing challenges of the new international dynamism. In our view, it is not compatible with the new spirit of democratization in our Organization or with the new international realities for one or a few countries to subsidize the entire budget in a disproportionate way, for this can lead to the danger of concentrating the decision- making power and thereby affecting the Organization's functioning. In the final analysis — and we do not want to give lessons to anyone — we feel that what is necessary is a good arsenal of general and flexible criteria, the key to the search for consensus — that is, representativity, legitimacy, non-discrimination, equity and legal equality. We must move from the particular and discuss individual aspirations, in order to design a compendium of criteria that would be applicable to all, whether or not their seats on the Security Council rotated. From that standpoint, we think that we should not discuss the veto in the abstract, as a privilege or as a category in and of itself. With the passage of time, there has been a distortion in the original spirit of the Charter, under which the members of the Security Council were to represent in the Security Council the general interests of the international community, not act in accordance with their exclusive military or political strategic interests. In that context, part of the reform should be the negotiation of an agreement restricting the use of the veto to what is stipulated in Chapter VII and to what was agreed in the gentlemen's agreement in London 1948. From that standpoint, we need a formula that can prevent a single country from standing in the way of the general interest. One such formula would be allowing vetoes to be overridden by a two-thirds majority. The optimal solution, of course, would be to get rid of the veto. 21 Let me here and now thank the public and private sectors of the international community for the support and solidarity given to my country during the Universal Congress on the Panama Canal. This is a good opportunity to report that Panama is continuing to take the necessary legislative and administrative steps to turn this international public service over to an agency that would be constitutionally autonomous — administratively, politically and financially. Panama is certain that scrupulous observance of this autonomous status will make the interocean waterway more competitive and more efficient and will also allow the agency to take advantage of the many opportunities that will be created by the Canal’s upcoming incorporation into the Panamanian economy. We must remember that until now military needs for the Canal have always been dominant, and this has made it impossible to exploit the Canal’s many competitive advantages for trade and international civil-maritime activities. From this standpoint, Panama’s greatest strategic concern during the transition process has been to gain complete control of the Canal so as to undertake a vast, multimillion-dollar programme to modernize and widen it. This programme includes widening the Gaillard Cut — a critical area for ships crossing from the waters of Lake Gatun — as well as the systematic studies undertaken in cooperation with the United States, Japan and the European Union in order to construct the third system of locks, which will allow passage of ships weighing up to 150,000 dead- weight tons. Given the international importance of the Panamanian interoceanic waterway, we intend to announce formally to this General Assembly session that, in order to ensure respect for the neutrality of the Panama Canal, Panama will conduct its external relations in such a way as to reduce international tension and conflict and not to get embroiled in issues that would require us to take sides for or against members of the international community with which we have friendly relations, or for or against the community as a whole. We are convinced that this new policy is the most important contribution Panama can make to international peace and security. From this standpoint, we will concentrate our efforts on contributing to understanding, cooperation and friendly relations among peoples and governments. The Panama Canal, as an international public service, must be open to all users, public and private, regardless of the flag they fly or the economic system they represent. In this regard, we are pleased by our admission to the pro tem secretariat of the Rio Group as of 1998, and we are committed from now on to undertaking intensive diplomatic efforts to strengthen the Group’s role as a leading forum for interregional and intra-regional discussion and political understanding.  ﻿I wish to extend to the President the warm congratulations of my delegation on his election to preside over the fifty-second session of the General Assembly. We are on the verge of what may be a defining moment in the direction and capabilities of the Organization. His vast diplomatic experience assures us that at this moment the reins will indeed be in very capable hands. We must also deeply thank his predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia, for the high level of relevance, focus and commitment achieved at the fifty- first session under his bold and astute stewardship as President. His forthright appraisals of the critical issues facing the Organization, particularly the extraordinary impetus he injected into the question of the reform of the United Nations, will be felt well into the next millennium. We are also very pleased to offer our sincere congratulations to the new Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan. In less than a year since assuming that high responsibility he has already brought his considerable experience and vision to bear on the operations of the United Nations. Throughout his long and faithful service with the United Nations he has demonstrated a keen awareness of the need for a strong and responsive Organization. His all-encompassing reform proposals go a long way towards realizing a dream that has often eluded us in the past. We are confident he will persevere in his onerous task of keeping the Organization afloat. The report of the Secretary-General on the work of the Organization is an excellent starting point for an overview of the principal issues confronting mankind today. On the one hand, there are widespread ripple effects emanating from the end of the cold war, the advent of a single global market and the trend towards democratization and respect for human rights. On the other hand, there are the ominous trends towards the fragmentation of societies, the search for new identities and the consequent spread of civil strife and conflict. Today, therefore, the need to deal with post- conflict situations is as critical as the need to prevent them. There is now universal recognition that much of this conflict is the result of the widespread poverty and severe underdevelopment facing many societies. For an economy to overcome poverty and underdevelopment it must today participate in the global economy, which has become a driving force in the world. The 1997 World Economic and Social Survey suggests that all developing countries and countries with economies in transition need to raise per capita income by at least 3 per cent annually. To achieve that, however, the Survey contends, and the Secretary-General agrees, the less affluent countries, in particular, require a more conducive external economic environment than now exists for them. The elements that until quite recently served to define our world have dramatically and rapidly changed. The predominant concerns of global atomic warfare and the cold war and the destructive policies of colonialism and apartheid have quickly given way to the challenges of poverty, globalism and development. This has created an unprecedented demand for the services of the United Nations at a time when it is facing critical challenges in a world of revolutionary change. To remain relevant, the United Nations must carry out fundamental structural adjustments or changes, which can no longer be addressed through ad hoc, piecemeal reforms. A coordinated, top-down, comprehensive reform of the entire edifice is necessary to overhaul and streamline the Secretariat; create a new organizational culture and focus; consolidate functions; do away with overlapping programmes and duplications; eliminate financial waste; mobilize new resources for development; and strengthen and enhance coordination of United Nations operations at the field level. The savings derived from such rationalizations, trimming of inefficiencies and administrative costs could be directed to development for economic and social activities. These, it seems, are precisely the aims of the Secretary-General’s extensive and far-reaching proposals, issued under the title “Renewing the United Nations: A Programme for Reform”. They are a serious and bold set of proposals that deserve our utmost consideration. Djibouti fully supports the proposals and endorses their implementation as a package. The General Assembly at this session has demonstrated overwhelming support for the Secretary- General’s reform proposals, particularly in their design as an integrated package. They should be considered as such by this plenary. It would be helpful to look at the proposals as the United Nations equivalent of the World Bank’s new Strategic Compact. Each initiative is intended to take its respective organization into the next millennium by bringing about a fundamental renewal of the institution. 15 We know that every element of the Secretary- General’s package may not generate agreement across the board. Divergences of views are bound to occur and are to be expected. Indeed, genuine fears, even scepticism, have been voiced against a reform process that may translate simply into a cost-cutting exercise, which ultimately may mean less focus on underdevelopment, poverty and social dislocations. These are valid concerns which I am sure the Secretary-General is conscious of and must address. But for the sake of the larger purpose at stake, let us refrain from minuscule nit-picking. We need, rather, to adopt a pragmatic and positive approach to the package. In this way, we can spare ourselves from long and protracted, if not interminable, discussions which, as we know from experience, too often end in committee gridlock, a type of paralysis by analysis. Bowing to the realities of the Organization’s dire financial predicament, the Secretary-General has accordingly fashioned a credible reorganization that will enhance efficiency and responsiveness and effectively contribute to a strengthened Untied Nations, capable of fulfilling its mission. There appears to be a near universal consensus on the need to reform the United Nations. Regrettably though, much of the impetus is dictated by the Organization’s acute financial situation. Were all Member States to honour their treaty commitments to pay their assessment obligations in full, on time and without condition, reform would focus more on what the United Nations can and must do than on what it cannot and is unable to do. An effective United Nations cannot operate on subsistence, hand-to-mouth and ever dwindling resources that perpetually keep it on the brink of bankruptcy. Ultimately, the financial solvency of the United Nations is the responsibility of Member States. Sound finances are the sine qua non of the effectiveness and stability of the Organization. Without a continuous and predictable flow of resources, the danger posed to the independence, if not survival, of the United Nations is very real. The issue of Security Council reform need not be linked to the reform proposal presented by the Secretary- General. The latter must run its own course and, acted upon independently, culminate in a resolution for its adoption. In step with the growth in membership of the Organization, the Council must be enlarged to reflect the pressing need for equitable representation. In view of the considerable debate this issue has generated over the years, we believe that the time has come for a change in the Security Council, particularly with the admission of new permanent members from all the regions of the world and from the industrialized countries, wielding the same powers as the existing ones. As we all know, a cardinal tenet of the thesis of good governance is that all members of a body politic have a fair and equal role in decisions which affect them. Djibouti fully endorses the position of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the Non- Aligned Movement regarding the expansion, composition and working methods of the Council. Except as a metaphor for international peacekeeping failure, Somalia has exited the international radar screen of concern. This is regrettable, for there have been persistent regional and international efforts to initiate dialogue among the parties. True, much of Somalia continues to exist in a cycle of misery and political impasse, lacking a central authority, internal security and national cohesion. The spread of conventional weapons has engendered insecurity and political uncertainty — a looming threat even to the warlords and to the long-range prospects for peace in the country and the region. Perhaps, as is often the case, there may be foreign elements that are developing profitable interests under the present state of anarchy. There is, however, a growing and encouraging emergence of a movement to reconstitute some form of national structure and to set aside differences. We cannot ignore this glimmer of hope, however elusive. With one or two notable exceptions, the factions seem to have resolved to hold a conference this November in Somalia, in the town of Bossaso. The aim is to establish an interim authority whose main task will be to prepare the groundwork for drafting a constitution, holding elections and the emergence, hopefully, of a national Government. This subregional effort, spearheaded by Ethiopia, not only enjoys the wide support of many Governments and organizations, but is perhaps the most promising initiative at the moment. The interminable stalling of progress towards reconciliation, the stifling stalemate, must come to an end. The time has come to say to our Somali sisters and brothers, “Enough is enough!” Enough misery, mayhem, bloodshed and destruction. Enough of the senseless indifference to and reckless disregard for life, property and nationhood. Enough of the grim prospects of an uncertain future for a whole generation of Somalis. Enough of assigning Somalia to the footnotes of history. 16 In the final analysis, the creativity, vision and determination of the Somali people shall prevail. For all its anarchy and destruction, Somalia can benefit from the example of Liberia, which, like Somalia, was a country written off, a country in name only, just a few months ago. There as well, conflict between warlords and factions succeeded only in bringing the country to its knees. Now, through concerted dialogue and determination, and constant prodding by the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the United Nations, elections have been held and stability and peace reestablished, and there is a legitimate Government which enjoys international recognition. The same could be true for Somalia. The countries of the region, the United Nations, nations with a historic relationship with Somalia and the international community at large must support, morally as well as materially, the ongoing efforts to bring about dialogue, reconciliation, lasting peace and harmony in Somalia. As in Liberia, that may be the gist of the message Somalia is sending the international community at this critical juncture. We must respond, and respond united, with one voice. By virtue of the close proximity and the many common factors that bind us together, Djibouti has a special interest in the destiny and well-being of the Somali people. That is why, as far back as 1991, at the advent of the conflict, we took the lead in bringing the contending parties together in two successive and substantive reconciliation conferences in Djibouti. Since then we have remained seized of the situation there. It is well known that Djibouti has received a staggering flow of refugees from Somalia, which, in relation to our size and resources, has been overwhelming. This mammoth humanitarian undertaking on our part is indeed beyond our capacity to sustain indefinitely. We appeal to the international community to continue to be supportive of our sacrifices by contributing substantially towards the mitigation of this burden. The Horn of Africa region is passing through a period of relative stability and rejuvenation. The aftermaths of previous conflicts are still visible, of course, in the extent of physical, institutional and human destruction. Reconstruction will require genuine regional cooperation. Our peoples, our land, our waters and coastlines and our economies are too interdependent to survive in isolation. That is the spirit which must prevail. We have an important regional institution in the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), which serves as a regional focus for development cooperation and conflict resolution. Its capability and resources deserve the continued support of the international community. Djibouti continues its economic transformation, institutional reform and demobilization process. For each of these we continue to require generous international assistance, and towards this end wish to express our appreciation for the commitments pledged during the round-table conference held in May this year under the umbrella of the United Nations Development Programme and the Bretton Woods institutions. The legacy of past instability, widespread conflict and State collapse in the Horn of Africa have had many disruptive consequences for Djibouti. No doubt we suffered in tandem with our neighbours. But we are confident our efforts to deal with these difficulties will be supported by the international community. The Mid-Term Review of the Implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development Least Developed Countries 1997 report indicate that the ominous slide suffered by many least developed countries during the 1980s was reversed in 1995, and improvements continued into 1996. Despite declines in commodity prices and terms of trade, a number of least developed countries have enjoyed positive growth rates, indicating the beneficial effects of ongoing structural adjustment efforts. These encouraging signs complemented efforts towards democratization, good governance and regional economic cooperation. Nowadays it is commonly accepted that as more peoples and countries participate in the global economy, production and wealth increase for everyone. It is equally true, however, that in this era of rapid globalization many developing countries with small markets, poor infrastructures, unskilled manpower and high levels of external debt are excluded from the benefits of globalization and are unable to cope with the challenges. Most of the least developed countries — and 33 of the world’s 48 are in Africa — face the risk of further marginalization despite determined efforts towards reforms which must merit greater international support. Coupled with this is the falling of official development assistance, which Norway’s Minister for Development Cooperation described as unacceptable, since the poorest countries need to finance basic social 17 services and infrastructure as well as capacity-building and competence. The least developed countries, particularly those in Africa, tread a fine line between sustainable progress and decline. They are expected to carry out extensive reforms while concurrently addressing the social needs brought about by widespread poverty, environmental degradation and urban explosions. Africa also continues to attract negligible foreign direct investment flows, which are largely concentrated in a few countries. The internal conflicts raging in a number of African countries seriously further undermine an already fragile regional stability. African leaders and organizations such as the Organization of African Unity, the Economic Community of West African States, IGAD and the Southern African Development Community (SADC), together with the international community, are engaged in active and relentless efforts to bring about cessation of hostilities, reconciliations and the re-establishment of law and order. On the positive side, we congratulate Liberia for having finally overcome the prolonged and sustained bloodshed and self-destruction. We deplore however, growing signs of a resurgence of hostilities in Angola, and we condemn the overthrow of Sierra Leone’s constitutional and legitimate Government. We hope the efforts of the countries of the region through ECOWAS will be crowned with success. Likewise, we applaud the tenacity of President Omar Bongo of Gabon and Ambassador Mohamed Sahnoun, the United Nations/Organization of African Unity Special Representative, in the effort to secure a durable ceasefire in Brazzaville and to find a political solution in the face of open and undisguised challenges to the authority of the elected President. Similar challenges have either succeeded or stalemated in Burundi, the Central African Republic and, now, Comoros. We hope reason will eventually prevail in all these situations so that the people are spared further strife and uncertainty. In this context, I welcome the timely initiative by Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, to convene a special ministerial meeting of the United Nations Security Council on Africa, which took place on 25 September 1997. We believe such bold initiatives will help mitigate the ominous tendencies of increasing insularity and inward focus of many developed countries, where events in far-off places no longer seem so relevant to core interests within them. We welcome Secretary of State Albright’s injection of new momentum into the peace process between Israel and the Palestinians. Unilateral decisions by Israel must stop, and Israel must also refrain from actions which continuously disrupt and divert the direction of the talks. Contrary to what Israel wants us to believe, the peace process has not been faltering on account of the suicide bombings alone — which, unfortunately, took many lives — but because of Israel’s refusal to implement terms of the Interim Agreement. No one, of course, condones the bombings, with their gruesome human toll. They are acts which must be condemned and only underscore the urgency of resuming the peace process with a genuine determination. The punishment meted out on Palestinian territories has only further aggravated an explosive situation. Predictably, the economic effects have been devastating. Ironically, Oslo had convinced a majority of Palestinians that it might be possible to coexist with Israel in peace under an independent Palestinian State controlling its own destiny. Yet now they are little more than security hostages under relentless coercion and pressures. The basic situation in Palestine has not changed. Israel needs security and peace; Palestinians need land, as well as peace and security. Neither can unilaterally dictate terms to the other side. Escalating punishment will not bring security. Israel needs to demonstrate its seriousness and its willingness to move towards secure peace in the Middle East and towards credible negotiations and lasting settlement on the basis of resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973), and 425 (1978), exchanging land for peace. For the overwhelming majority of humanity the disillusioning regression in the peace process has caused deep anguish. It would be a pity if the yearning for peace, security, justice and resolution continues to be eschewed and misdirected. We are quite hopeful Secretary Albright will persevere to keep the process on track. Once again we implore Iran and the United Arab Emirates to commence serious negotiations to peacefully resolve the dispute regarding the three islands occupied by Iran. The recently concluded Oslo Diplomatic Conference seeking a worldwide ban on the production, distribution, stockpiling and use of landmines was clearly a watershed 18 event. We welcome this landmark achievement, which now provides us with a vehicle to stop the slaughter of so many thousands of human beings each year by the 110 million devices already in place all over the world. To prevent our global village from becoming an armed camp, the landmine Convention, to be signed in Ottawa this December, is perhaps as critical as the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the Chemical Weapons Convention. Landmines are surely as dangerous as terrorism, drug trafficking and international mobs.  ﻿I have the honour to present my personal compliments to His Excellency Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko and to wish him every success during his presidency. 24 I have the honour also to deliver the address of His Excellency Mr. Charles Ghankay Taylor, President of the Republic of Liberia, who regrettably cannot be here today. The text of his address reads as follows: “At the outset, I wish to convey sincere greetings, on behalf of the Government and people of Liberia and in my own name. We are here today, having endured and survived a severe civil crisis of nearly a decade, through the acute consciousness of our subregion, whose empathy with Liberia’s plight created and orchestrated a mechanism to prevent us from self-destruction. And we stand no less indebted to a sea of humanitarian outreach through the international community, most notably the European Union (EU) and the United States; but absolutely, as a living testimony to God Almighty, whose compassionate will has removed the hand of evil from the activities of our nation. “Indeed, we are here because Liberia has stood the test of time and the full assault of hardship. Today, one added voice of a sovereign State of Africa — and an original Charter Member of this Organization — is being heard through its constituted Head of Government, which we symbolize, and for which we give all glory to God. “It is my pleasure to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko on his election to the presidency of this fifty-second session of the General Assembly. To this we add our best wishes for his success in meeting the challenges of this awesome assignment. Also, it is befitting that we extend our thanks to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Razali Ismail, whose tenure was characterized by a resolute commitment to finding solutions to the many issues which impacted the proceedings of the fifty-first session. “I wish also to seize this opportunity to commend, on behalf of the Government and people of Liberia, Secretary-General Kofi Annan. Already, he has demonstrated that he understands the problems which afflict Africa, his native continent, and that his leadership is not confined to the accomplishments which he earned as a son of Ghana. Day by day, glimpses of his ability as an effective spokesman for all mankind are being made clearly visible. Permit me to also pay special honour to the former Secretary- General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, whose sense of purpose and invaluable efforts to strengthen the role of the Organization in the pursuit of international peace and security have brought benefits to mankind. We stand convinced that the patience he exercised and the many initiatives and the personal commitment he injected into the search for peace and understanding during his tenure deserve appropriate commendation by this Organization. “The establishment of the United Nations over five decades ago marked the beginning of a new era in international relations. The adoption of its Charter, a document of pride and durability, which Liberia helped to formulate, instituted a working system of international cooperation. Thus, nations are resolved to eradicate the scourge of war; to strengthen peace through justice and international law; to respect the equal rights of all nations — large and small; to promote social progress and to protect human rights throughout the world. We wish to reaffirm our avowed faith in the United Nations, and we retain the undiminished hope that this Organization will continue to be a veritable instrument for the good conduct of relations among all nation States. In so asserting our firm commitment to its ideals, we, therefore, rededicate ourselves to its objectives. Indeed, from nearly every perspective, this Organization continues to cater to the common aspirations of the international community. Today, with its increased image as a centre for harmonization, the vision of its Charter Members has expanded across its original spectrum of engagement. “Accordingly, as one of its visionaries who actively participated in its creation, we felt it propitious that — despite our recent civil conflict and its heart-rending accounts — we be personally represented at this fifty-second session, not only to reaffirm our commitment to multilateralism, but also to explore new ways of transforming our hopes for solidarity into concrete actions for peace and development; not only to make a ceremonial representation, but also to add frankness to the scope of discussions for the improvement of our Organization. “On 19 July, the eve of the sesquicentennial anniversary of our independence, the people of Liberia went to the polls and made a forthright decision for a great new beginning for democracy, for representative government within a constitutional order, and for peace and prosperity in the forward 25 march towards the twenty-first century. In that momentous exercise, the Liberian people demonstrated once again, as they had done throughout 150 years of survival, their resilience and unconquerable will to overcome imponderable odds, to keep alive the flame of national independence in Africa. “Jawaharlal Nehru, India’s first Prime Minister, at the birth of his nation defined independence as the moment ’when an age ends, and the soul of the nation, long suppressed, finds utterance’. “Thus, when the tragic events of our national experience in the recent past are viewed within the context of historical inevitability, we can safely say that the elections of 19 July 1997 gave rise to a newly liberated soul of the Liberian nation. “It is in this light that we see the landslide victory of 19 July 1997 as the final coming together of all of our people in a national embrace of unity to give vibrancy to the liberated national soul. The vote took place during the week of the solemn celebration of the 150-year anniversary of the founding of the nation. It was a vote rooted in renewed hope, which concurs with what one writer refers to as ’idealism suffused with a sense of ending’. The people voted to end civil war and national turbulence and to begin a new era of peace, stability, democracy, responsible government and prosperity. “We have fully grasped the message of our people’s verdict. Upon our inauguration on 2 August 1997, we set out to form a Government of inclusion. We have also embarked on a process of national reconciliation. We have invited all Liberians, irrespective of political party affiliation, religious orientation and ethnic origin, to come and join hands with us in rebuilding our country. We have assured all that our primary objective is to foster national unity as the best hope for genuine peace and progress in our country. “We have also reaffirmed the 1986 Constitution as the Organic Law of Liberia. That Constitution guarantees and protects the fundamental rights and freedoms of all alike. We are committed to making that sacred document work. Our Administration will guarantee and promote the functioning of a credible and independent judiciary. We shall also protect human rights and freedom of the press. Above all, we shall endeavour to promote internal stability through a Government of inclusion and national unity. “Our experience as a nation convinces us that the right to self-determination is a necessary prerequisite for any people to ensure national development and to play a meaningful role in the community of nations. The right to self- determination is not, in our view, limited to liberation from external control, but also applies to liberation from internal tyranny. It is being demonstrated time and again that it is unhealthy for external support to be tied to the survival of a particular regime rather than to the growth and development of the nation. There is no substitute for legitimacy and good governance. Internal liberation awakens a new consciousness about peace, security, stability and conflict resolution within a society. The institutions of the market economy are strengthened, and the people develop greater hope for a decent and better standard of living. “In this connection, and based on our experience, Liberia will continue to play the role of promoting regional peace and security, fostering national development through regional and subregional integration and promoting democratic values through institution-building. “We are aware of the significant changes which are taking place, including the increased tendency towards political pluralism and democratization, the rise in economic growth in a number of countries and the upsurge towards market economies, as well as progress towards the liberalization and globalization of the world economy. “The end of the cold war has resulted in a relaxation of tension, particularly between world Powers, and improved interactions among and between States. My Government must nevertheless register its grave concern that since the advent of the historic fiftieth anniversary of this Organization, some regional conflicts which appeared on the verge of resolution have defied settlement. We are deeply disturbed by ongoing conflicts in Africa, the Middle East, Europe and Asia. Historical evidence has shown that conflicts, whether in Africa or elsewhere, will have negative consequences, not only for the countries directly affected, but also for their neighbours and the regions of which they are a part. Liberians know only too well the consequences of a 26 protracted conflict and therefore urge all parties to the various conflicts to seek a negotiated settlement of their differences. “In recent times, several unfavourable developments have continued to threaten international peace and security. At present, in the Middle East, the conflict between Israel and the Palestinian Authority is permeated with accusations, charges and counter- charges, despite the signing of the Agreement of 28 September 1995. In spite of the fact that efforts to pacify the situation are being undermined, we urge States within the region which are taking concrete steps, as well as the international community, to give more attention to ensuring that the peace process remains on course. “Within our subregion, while we draw immense satisfaction from the fact that the Liberian crisis has finally ended and the Liberian people have achieved durable peace and stability, we lament the reality of the threatening situation which recently has developed in neighbouring Sierra Leone. This matter truly leaves much to be desired, and we cannot overemphasize the fact that it is in the best interests of Liberia and its neighbours that peace be soon established in Sierra Leone and its people reconciled. “Liberia, a member of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Committee of Five on Sierra Leone, is committed to a peaceful, negotiated settlement of the Sierra Leonean crisis. We are of the firm conviction that it is our responsibility to ensure security and stability within our subregion. “Notwithstanding the individual and collective efforts of African States to achieve socio-political transformation, acts of destabilization continue to pose a serious threat to these countries. That is why African countries have intensified cooperation at the regional and subregional levels to stem this trend. We welcome the growing cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations in the fulfilment of Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter, and the renewed commitment to conflict resolution through preventive diplomacy, peacekeeping and peace-building. “In the economic sphere, recent conscientious efforts have resulted in the registration of positive signs in the revitalization of the global economy. This progressive trend has been taking place against the backdrop of explosive growth in world trade and private investment flows. In the meantime, developing countries have thus far contributed 70 per cent of the growth in global gross domestic product and half of the growth in world trade. Notwithstanding this, the gap between developed and developing countries continues to grow, leaving many countries behind amidst the general positive economic progress occurring in the world. More importantly, official development assistance required to fill the gap in resource depletion has fallen to its lowest point in real terms during the past 23 years, thereby forcing many of the world’s poorest countries deeply into debt, and making it virtually impossible for them to undertake or sustain economic reforms. “This situation has affected most developing countries, particularly those in Africa which continue to experience the crippling impact of external debt, deteriorating terms of trade and decline in investment and financial flows. While we acknowledge that the development of the African continent is primarily the responsibility of its people, we hope that Africa’s development will, of necessity, remain an area of concern to the international community. We commend the Secretary-General for his continuing initiatives for the development of Africa. The Government of Japan also deserves Africa’s appreciation for helping to sensitize the international community to the need to assist African countries to overcome the negative trends which are impacting on their economies. “Closely related to the issues of development is that of the environment. The human impact on the environment has increased dramatically, with unprecedented effects on mankind. Nevertheless, we remain hopeful that the growing awareness of the degradation of the environment and the need to reverse this trend will remain a priority on the global agenda. In this connection, my Government commends the holding of the recent high-level meeting convened by the United Nations to review progress on the implementation of decisions reached on Agenda 21 since the 1992 Rio Conference on Environment and Development. “The Government of Liberia is concerned about the alarming incidence of drug trafficking and drug abuse, which have already destroyed and continue to ruin countless lives. While this unfortunate development has undermined the integrity of many 27 Governments, we commend cooperative efforts between Governments that have taken bold action to prevent and eradicate drug trafficking and drug abuse. We welcome the Secretary-General’s proposal to merge the Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Division and the United Nations International Drug Control Programme. “The Liberian Government is prepared to work very closely with the international community in order to bring success to the international campaign that strives to undermine the production of and trafficking in illicit drugs. We are assured in this connection that, working in the framework of international cooperation and given our commitment, we are bound to succeed in our efforts to make our world a safer place for ourselves and our children. “Regarding the restructuring of the Security Council, we must recall that with the founding of this Organization we committed ourselves and succeeding generations to continuously preserve peace and security in our world. Let us remember that peace will be elusive in the world where social, economic and political rights are flouted. In this connection, and in view of the Security Council’s primary role in the maintenance of international peace and security, its reform is of particular urgency. We note the emergence during the fifty-first session of the growing consensus to restructure the Council so as to ensure that it becomes more representative and democratic. This would encourage the advent of a greater balance between the requirement of efficiency and that of expansion, as well as transparency in its method of work. Moreover, with optimum utilization of the resources of those Member States that can contribute significantly to peacekeeping operations, immense successes will redound to the credit of this Organization. “Due to the far-reaching implications for global peace of the Security Council’s decisions and actions, there have been persistent demands to expand its membership to reflect geographic balance and ensure equitable representation. Besides, of the fifteen members of the Council, five enjoy the veto power. The right of veto, we believe, is against the principle of universality and leaves the fate of our world to be decided by only a few Members of the United Nations. “Accordingly, Liberia joins the call for expanded membership of the Security Council. We also request that, as the region with the single largest number of Members, Africa be given two permanent seats on the Council. We further call for the elimination of the veto power. “Liberia believes that no country or institution can prosper if it is resistant to change — the United Nations being no exception. In this connection, we agree with the Secretary-General’s decision to institute reforms in the administrative and operational aspects of the Organization. Notwithstanding this, we support a reform process that does not diminish the capacity of the United Nations to perform the Charter-mandated functions in the area of development, more especially to meet the needs of developing countries. We are, therefore, heartened by the Secretary-General’s indication that savings accrued from the exercise will be utilized to establish an economic- and social-development account for the sole purpose of financing development programmes launched by the United Nations. We note that $200 million will be saved for development by the year 2002. “The issue of sanctions has occupied much time and energy here over the years, and Liberia, like other African nations and nations around the world, has watched sanctions succeed, and fail, as a means of encouraging change. Sanctions’ greatest triumph was perhaps in South Africa, where international sanctions isolated the racist apartheid regime and contributed to its eventual downfall. “But unfortunately, as we know, sanctions are not always so successful. Time and again, nations singled out for punitive sanctions have been able to circumvent the edicts of this world body and obtain the goods or the weapons they seek. Still worse, the leaders of these nations, who are the real targets of the political and economic pressure that sanctions are meant to deliver, often feel no pain. Sadly, it is the innocent people — already the victims of these regimes — who suffer the most. On balance, then, our Government is sceptical about sanctions as a tool for change. Unless they are universally adopted, strictly enforced and carefully designed to achieve specific political goals, we believe that sanctions can too easily end up harming those they are designed to help. 28 “The Liberian civil war was to a great extent, a protest against the blatant disregard for and violation of the rights of Liberians. At the end of seven years of civil war, the need to consolidate peace is of the highest priority to my Government. It is essential to national survival and the sustenance of our newly created democracy that the post-war reconciliation policy be firmly grounded in developing a culture and tradition consistent with international norms of respect for basic human rights. “In furtherance of this objective, my Government has initiated a process to create by law a National Commission on Human Rights that will operate independently and that will investigate, document and report cases of human rights violations. Additionally, the post of Deputy Minister for Human Rights has been created within the Ministry of Justice, with specific responsibility to ensure the protection of basic human rights. “Since its inauguration on 2 August, our Government has taken prompt and appropriate steps that will protect the rights of all people, whether citizens or aliens, residing in the country. As a testimony to this commitment, some immigration officers were dismissed when they were found guilty of having brutalized some alleged aliens. Additionally, a private lawyer successfully filed a writ of habeas corpus against the Minister of Justice, the Commissioner of Immigration and the Director of Police for detaining a number of aliens for over forty- eight hours without the formal charge required. The lawyer won the case and the aliens were released. “Without a doubt, we as a Government are aware that we are being keenly observed, as if through a microscope, both internally and externally. Accordingly, we do not intend to water down our promise that matters relating to human rights will be kept clean and our record maintained unadulterated. As a candidate for the presidency, we made it abundantly clear that, when elected, there would be no witch-hunting. On this account, we stand to be challenged. “We are witnesses to the rapid growth of the global village through advances in technology, communications and tolerance, which, too, have encouraged world peace and stability. Indeed, when the illustrious architects of this noble Organization conceived the idea, from the Dumbarton Oaks Conference to the Yalta Conference, before drawing up the United Nations, the world was not as it is today. From its original membership of 51 nations in 1945, the United Nations now has an impressive membership of 185 nations. Out of this number, 28 have been admitted just since 1990, the latest being Palau, in 1994. “The parallel existence of the People’s Republic of China and the Republic of China on either side of the Taiwan Strait constitutes for my country, a founding Member of the Organization, one of the difficulties and the source of the prevalent sense of frustration that continue to persist on the international political scene since the end of the cold war. “It really begs the issue to review the decision of the General Assembly on 25 October 1971, when its Members voted to admit the People’s Republic of China to membership while ignoring a compromise proposal that the Republic of China retain a seat in the General Assembly. My country, a life-long supporter of the principle of including every nation in the United Nations system, feels that there should be a re-examination of the proposal to which I have just referred, with a view to admitting the Republic of China to the General Assembly. Quite clearly, existing global realities make it necessary and prudent for us to review the action taken in 1971. We believe that the United Nations is the proper instrument for the correction of many seemingly intractable problems. We would add that this Organization is the most significant international forum for the resolution of complex crises and that all nations that desire to participate in the United Nations should have that right. Yet, in the highest sense, we believe that until reunification is achieved the parallel participation in the United Nations of the People’s Republic of China and the Republic of China would be conducive to regional security and world peace. “One of the principal challenges facing Liberia today is the revitalization of its economy. The past prosperity of the Liberian economy was built on the successful development of the country’s abundant natural resources and the active participation of the private sector. We also enjoyed the benefits of a lively transit trade with our neighbours. During the years of economic mismanagement and civil strife, 29 the economy collapsed and the livelihood of ordinary people was impaired. “Bringing prosperity back to the country is an enormous challenge. We are determined that the benefits of such prosperity should reach all the people of Liberia, and not merely the privileged few. I am convinced that the private sector has a key role to play. The management of the economy must be transparent and cost effective. The burden of external debt, which we inherited, needs to be addressed. A positive relationship with the international financial institutions is central to the success of our reconstruction programme. We need an early infusion of financial resources on favourable terms to launch the post-war reconstruction programmes. “Private-sector operations in rubber, timber and mining will provide jobs and earn foreign exchange for the country. We need to create a favourable climate for new investment. This means that the fiscal regime must be reformed and simplified and that taxes be paid to the Government. My Government has already implemented a programme to centralize all revenue collection under the Ministry of Finance. Our exchange rate and currency practices are being reviewed in order to guide local and foreign investors and inform them about the transaction costs of doing business. “In managing the economy we must make the best use of scarce resources. There is no place in the new Liberia for ineffective public corporations and a bloated civil service that are a drain on the budget. Revenue collection is being tightened up, expenditure strictly controlled, and the budget used as the main vehicle for prudent fiscal management and public accountability. Given our very limited resources, this will mean that many priority projects will have to wait. “Liberia’s external debt to international financial institutions and other external creditors, inherited from previous Governments, imposes a huge burden on my Government. We believe that the size of that burden, coupled with the cost of rebuilding a shattered society, makes it essential that the international community make special concessions. “My Government intends to manage public finances in accordance with the high standards expected of any good government. But we cannot consolidate the transition from war to peace unless immediate funds are available to run the machinery of government and to start up the reintegration programmes designed by donors, in consultation with our Government. “I stand here in this great Hall and before honoured representatives of independence as the representative of a nation that only 75 days ago underwent a free, fair and peaceful election — perhaps one of the most transparent elections ever held anywhere in the world. I hail from a national heritage which, more than a century and half ago, was born out of enslavement, servitude and racism and which progressed from thence to freedom and independence, and my proud homeland, in its struggle to maintain its sovereignty and independence, lost almost half of its territory to external Powers. Indeed, I speak of a land of liberty that has passed through more than its share of political crucibles. “We have come, but not in anger. Rather, we have emerged from a stained past of self-inflicted suffering, which is perhaps not the surest rationale for qualifying. But our scars enable us to speak, with some constraint, at nearly first hand about how we have been able to survive and keep our dignity as a sovereign State and people. We ask that the Assembly accord us the requisite attention, while retaining the hope that the experience of conflict resolution in Liberia and the engagement of the United Nations and the international community, in collaboration with the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) through its peacekeeping instrument, the Economic Community of West African States Monitoring Group (ECOMOG), which helped restore peace and harmony to Liberia, will enlighten members on future undertakings in the arena of civil conflict. “In all candour, if there is anything of substance that must be said, it is this: Let us never again allow any form of human anguish to be left in isolation, no matter how meaningless it may appear in the eyes of controlling Powers. Should it not be understood that one human tear is just as painful as another and that the entire globe is united by the same life-generating substance? “We have come to the United Nations to advocate international cooperation. Let us not close 30 our eyes to the countless failures in the achievement of our common objectives as we enter the twenty-first century. Let us take note of the dangers and work together so that reason can prevail. The economic problems and social dangers the world faces are immense, and we have no right to postpone solutions or open the door to conflict and instability. Strategic confrontation dominated the best minds of this century. Perhaps it is now time to turn our eyes upon ourselves, upon our peoples and our societies, to assess their condition, their moral needs and their crises, and to attempt to find solutions. “To conclude, I wish to make an appeal to the heart, without distinction as to creed, dogma, political colour or national faction. I should like each of us to look the other in the eye and ask ourselves sincerely and frankly: Is this the world our children deserve? Will we be satisfied when, in the near future, the voice of history and of our blood summons us to judgement? The United Nations system and the entire international community will be judged on the basis of their response to those important questions.”﻿Five years ago, when I first addressed this Assembly, the cold war had only just ended and the transition to a new era was beginning. Now, together, we are making that historic transition. Behind us, we leave a century full of humanity's capacity for the worst and its genius for the best. Before us, at the dawn of a new millennium, we can envision a new era that escapes the twentieth century's darkest moments, fulfils its most brilliant possibilities and crosses frontiers yet unimagined. We are off to a promising start. For the first time in history, more than half the people represented in this Assembly freely choose their own Governments. Free markets are growing, spreading individual opportunity and national well-being. Early in the twenty-first century, more than 20 of this Assembly's members - home to half the earth's population - will lift themselves from the ranks of low-income nations. Powerful forces are bringing us closer together, profoundly changing the way we work, live and relate to each other. Every day, millions of our citizens on every continent use laptops and satellites to send information, products and money across the planet in seconds. Bit by bit, the information age is chipping away at barriers - economic, political and social - that once kept people locked in and ideas locked out. Science is unravelling mysteries in the tiniest of human genes and in the vast cosmos. Never in the course of human history have we had a greater opportunity to make our people healthier and wiser, to protect our planet from decay and abuse and to reap the benefits of free markets without abandoning the social contract and its concern for the common good. Yet today's possibilities are not tomorrow's guarantees. We have work to do. 7 The forces of global integration are a great tide, inexorably wearing away the established order of things. But we must decide what will be left in its wake. People fear change when they feel its burdens but not its benefits. They are susceptible to misguided protectionism and to the poisoned appeals of extreme nationalism, and ethnic, racial and religious hatreds. New global environmental challenges require us to find ways to work together without damaging legitimate aspirations for progress. We are all vulnerable to the reckless acts of rogue States and to an unholy axis of terrorists, drug traffickers and international criminals. These twenty-first-century predators feed on the free flow of information, ideas and people we cherish. They abuse the vast power of technology to build black markets for weapons, to compromise law enforcement with huge bribes of illicit cash and to launder money with the keystroke of a computer. These forces are our enemies. We must face them together because no one can defeat them alone. To seize the opportunities and move against the threats of this new global era, we need a new strategy of security. Over the past five years, nations have begun to put that strategy in place through a new network of institutions and arrangements, with distinct missions, but a common purpose: to secure and strengthen the gains of democracy and free markets while turning back their enemies. We see this strategy taking shape on every continent: in expanded military alliances, such as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), its Partnership for Peace and its partnerships with a democratic Russia and a democratic Ukraine; in free trade arrangements, such as the World Trade Organization and the global Information Technology Agreement, and in the movement towards free-trade areas by nations in the Americas, the Asia-Pacific region and elsewhere around the world; in strong arms-control regimes, such as the Chemical Weapons Convention and the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons; in multinational coalitions with zero tolerance for terrorism, corruption, crime and drug trafficking; and in binding international commitments to protect the environment and safeguard human rights. Through this web of institutions and arrangements, nations are setting the international ground rules for the twenty-first century, laying a foundation for security and prosperity for those who live within them, while isolating those who challenge them from the outside. This system will develop and endure only if those who follow the rules of peace and freedom fully reap their rewards. Only then will our people believe that they have a stake in supporting and shaping the emerging international system. The United Nations must play a leading role in this effort, filling in the fault lines of the new global era. The core missions it has pursued during its first half century will be just as relevant during the next half century: the pursuit of peace and security, promoting human rights and moving people from poverty to dignity and prosperity through sustainable development. Conceived in the cauldron of war, the United Nations first task must remain the pursuit of peace and security. For 50 years the United Nations has helped prevent world war and nuclear holocaust. Unfortunately, conflicts between nations, and within nations, have endured. From 1945 until today, they have cost 20 million lives. Just since the end of the cold war, each year there have been more than 30 armed conflicts in which more than 1,000 people have lost their lives - including, of course, a quarter of a million killed in the former Yugoslavia and more than half a million in Rwanda. Millions of personal tragedies the world over are a warning that we dare not be complacent or indifferent; trouble in a far corner can become a plague on everyone's house. People the world over cheer the hopeful developments in Northern Ireland, grieve over the loss of innocent lives and the stalling of the peace process in the Middle East and long for a resolution of the differences on the Korean peninsula, between Greece and Turkey or between the great nations of India and Pakistan as they celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of their birth. The United Nations continues to keep many nations away from bloodshed: in El Salvador and Mozambique; in Haiti and Namibia; in Cyprus; and in Bosnia, where so much remains to be done but can still be done because the bloodshed has ended. The United Nations record of service has left a legacy of sacrifice. Just last week we lost some of our finest sons and daughters in the crash of a United Nations helicopter in Bosnia. Five were American, five German, one Polish and one British - all citizens of the world we are trying to make, each a selfless servant of peace. The world is poorer for their passing. At this very moment, the United Nations is keeping the peace in 16 countries, often in partnership with regional organizations such as NATO, the Organization of American States, the Association of South-East Asian 8 Nations and the Economic Community of West African States, avoiding wider conflicts and even greater suffering. Our shared commitment to more realistic peacekeeping training for United Nations troops, a stronger role for civilian police and better integration between military and civilian agencies - all these will help the United Nations fulfil these missions in the years ahead. At the same time, we must improve the United Nations capabilities after a conflict ends to help peace become self-sustaining. The United Nations cannot build nations, but it can help nations build themselves by fostering legitimate institutions of government, monitoring elections and laying a strong foundation for economic reconstruction. This week the Security Council will hold an unprecedented ministerial meeting on African security, which our Secretary of State is proud to chair, and which President Mugabe, Chairman of the Organization of African Unity, will address. It will highlight the role the United Nations can and should play in preventing conflict on a continent where amazing progress towards democracy and development is occurring alongside still too much discord, disease and distress. In the twenty-first century our security will be challenged increasingly by interconnected groups that traffic in terror, organized crime and drug smuggling. Already, these international crime and drug syndicates drain up to $750 billion a year from legitimate economies. That sum that exceeds the combined gross national product of more than half the nations in this Hall. These groups threaten to undermine confidence in the fragile new democracies and market economies that so many of you are working so hard to see endure. Two years ago I called upon all the members of this Assembly to join in the fight against these forces. I applaud the recent United Nations resolution calling on its Members to join the major international anti-terrorism conventions, making clear the emerging international consensus that terrorism is always a crime and never a justifiable political act. As more countries sign on, terrorists will have fewer places to run or hide. I also applaud the steps that Members are taking to implement the Declaration on Crime and Public Security that the United States proposed two years ago, calling for increased cooperation to strengthen every citizen's right to basic safety, through cooperation on extradition and asset forfeiture, shutting down grey markets for guns and false documents, attacking corruption and bringing higher standards to law enforcement in new democracies. The spread of these global criminal syndicates also has made all the more urgent our common quest to eliminate weapons of mass destruction. We cannot allow them to fall into or remain in the wrong hands. Here too, the United Nations must lead, and it has led - from the United Nations Special Commission in Iraq to the International Atomic Energy Agency, now the most expansive global inspection system ever devised to police arms-control agreements. When we met here last year, I was honoured to be the first of 146 leaders to sign the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), our commitment to end all nuclear tests for all time, the longest-sought, hardest- fought prize in the history of arms control. It will help prevent the nuclear Powers from developing more advanced and more dangerous weapons. It will limit the possibilities for other States to acquire such devices. I am pleased to announce that today I am sending this crucial Treaty to the United States Senate for ratification. Our common goal should be for the CTBT to enter into force as soon as possible. I ask for of you to support that goal. The United Nations second core mission must be to defend and extend universal human rights and to help democracy's remarkable gains endure. Fifty years ago the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights stated the international community's conviction that people everywhere have the right to be treated with dignity, to give voice to their opinions and to choose their leaders; that these rights are universal - not American rights, not Western rights, not rights for the developed world only, but rights inherent in the humanity of people everywhere. Over the past decades these rights have become a reality for more people than ever, from Asia to Africa, from Europe to the Americas. In a world that links rich and poor, North and South, city and countryside in an electronic network of shared images in real time, the more these universal rights take hold, the more people who do not enjoy them will demand them. Armed with photocopiers and fax machines, e-mail and the Internet; supported by an increasingly important community of non-governmental organizations, they will make their demands known, spreading the spirit of freedom - which, as the history of the last 10 years has shown us, ultimately will prevail. 9 The United Nations must be prepared to respond - not only by setting standards but by implementing them. To deter abuses, we should strengthen the United Nations field operations and early-warning systems. To strengthen democratic institutions - the best guarantors of human rights - we must pursue programmes to help new legal, parliamentary and electoral institutions get off the ground. To punish those responsible for crimes against humanity, and to promote justice so that peace endures, we must maintain our strong support for the United Nations war- crime tribunals and truth commissions. And before the century ends, we should establish a permanent international court to prosecute the most serious violations of humanitarian law. The United States welcomes the Secretary General's efforts to strengthen the role of human rights within the United Nations system and his splendid choice of Mary Robinson as the new High Commissioner for Human Rights. We will work hard to make sure that she has the support she needs to carry out her mandate. Finally, the United Nations has a special responsibility to make sure that as the global economy creates greater wealth, it does not produce growing disparities between the haves and have-nots or threaten the global environment, our common home. Progress is not yet everyone's partner. More than half the world's people are two days' walk from a telephone, literally disconnected from the global economy. Tens of millions lack the education, the training and the skills they need to make the most of their God-given abilities. The men and women of the United Nations have expertise across the entire range of humanitarian and development activities. Every day they are making a difference. We see it in nourished bodies of once-starving children, in the full lives of those immunized against disease, in the bright eyes of children exposed to education through the rich storehouse of human knowledge, in refugees cared for and returned to their homes and in the health of rivers and lakes restored. The United Nations must focus even more on shifting resources from handouts to 'hand ups', on giving people the tools they need to make the most of their own destinies. Spreading ideas and education and technology - the true wealth of nations - is the best way to give the people the chance to succeed. The United Nations must continue to lead in ensuring that today's progress does not come at tomorrow's expense. When the nations of the world gather again next December in Kyoto for the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, all of us - developed and developing nations - must seize the opportunity to turn back the clock on greenhouse-gas emissions so that we can leave a healthy planet to our children. In these efforts, the United Nations no longer can, and no longer need, go it alone. Innovative partnerships with the private sector, non-governmental organizations and the international financial institutions can leverage its effectiveness many times over. Last week a truly visionary American, Ted Turner, made a remarkable donation to strengthen the United Nations development and humanitarian programmes. His gesture highlights the potential for partnership between the United Nations and the private sector, in contributions of time, resources and expertise. I hope more will follow his lead. In this area and others, the Secretary-General is aggressively pursuing the most far-reaching reform of the United Nations in its history - not to make the United Nations smaller as an end in itself, but to make it better. The United States strongly supports his leadership. We should pass the Secretary-General's reform agenda at this session. On every previous occasion I have addressed this Assembly, the issue of our country's dues has brought the commitment of the United States to the United Nations into question. The United States was a founder of the United Nations. We are proud to be its host. We believe in its ideals. We continue to be, as we have been, its largest contributor. We are committed to seeing the United Nations succeed in the twenty-first century. This year, for the first time since I have been President, we have an opportunity to put the question of debts and dues behind us once and for all and to put the United Nations on a sounder financial footing for the future. I have made it a priority to work with our Congress on comprehensive legislation that would allow us to pay off the bulk of our arrears and assure full financing of America's assessment in the years ahead. Our Congress's actions to solve this problem reflect a strong bipartisan commitment to the United Nations and to America's role within it. At the same time, we look to Member States to adopt a more equitable scale of assessments. Let me say that we also strongly support expanding the Security Council to give more countries a voice in the most important work of the United Nations. 10 In more equitably sharing responsibility for its successes, we can make the United Nations stronger and more democratic than it is today. I ask the General Assembly to act on these proposals this year so that we can move forward together. At the dawn of a new century so full of hope but not free of peril, more than ever we need a United Nations where people of reason can work through shared problems and take action to combat them, where nations of goodwill can join in the struggle for freedom and prosperity and where we can shape a future of peace, progress and the preservation of our planet. We have the knowledge; we have the intelligence; we have the energy; we have the resources for the work before us. We are building the necessary networks of cooperation. The great question remaining is whether we have the vision and the heart necessary to imagine a future that is different from the past - necessary to free ourselves from destructive patterns of relations with each other and within our own nations and to live a future that is different. A new century in a new millennium is upon us. We are literally present at the future, and it is the great gift we are obligated to leave to our children.  ﻿Mr. President, first of all I would like to congratulate you on your election as President of the General Assembly at this session. We wish you success in this responsible task in a year that will be of great importance for the Organization. I would also like to take this opportunity to express our gratitude to the previous President of the Assembly, Ambassador Ismail, who showed exceptional commitment to the reform initiatives throughout the fifty-first session. That recently concluded session was an important step towards a reinforced United Nations which, with its universal membership, will have to be able to deal with serious problems facing the world today. We expect the fifty-second session of the General Assembly to be a decisive landmark in the renewal and restructuring of the United Nations — a major endeavour undertaken by Member States several years ago. In this respect we would like to pay tribute to the Secretary- General, who presented his report on this question to the General Assembly on 16 July. My Government lends its full support to Secretary-General Kofi Annan in his efforts. We also note with satisfaction that part of this package has already been implemented. Estonia is looking forward to an agreement within the foreseeable future concerning a response by Member States to the Secretary-General’s proposals. It is our sincere hope that Members will deal with this matter in a constructive manner and that a generally acceptable scheme for reforming the United Nations will be agreed upon. We are confident that all Member States will benefit from the reform of the Organization. I would now like to focus my address on points of specific relevance to present needs in the reform package. The aim of reform as a whole is to adapt the Organization to its new challenges, to make it more effective and efficient, more manageable and modern in every way. We are now remodelling this Organization to make it compatible with the twenty-first century. The world has changed — the United Nations has to change with it. Having criteria for the appraisal of performance seems to be of crucial importance. Result-based budgeting should assure a strengthened linkage between intergovernmental mandates and their efficient implementation. Enhanced cost effectiveness envisaged for 1998-1999 is also an encouraging sign. Estonia lends strong support to the idea of cutting the number of agenda items for future sessions. We also find the idea of consolidating the representation of different United Nations funds and programmes in Member States on common premises and under one flag to be very attractive. United Nations Houses would enhance the visibility of the Organization and provide a valuable source of information about it and its activities. I would like to note the positive experience Estonia has gathered in cooperation with the local United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) country office. Many programmes vital to Estonia have materialized owing to the support of the UNDP. We highly appreciate this cooperation and hope that the future United Nations House will be able to use that valuable expertise. The financing of the United Nations is a question that interests all of us. Without adequate financing, the Organization would not be able to fulfil its mandate. This fifty-second session of the General Assembly must assess the impact of the Secretary-General’s proposed reforms on the programme budget for 1998-1999 and define a new scale of assessments for its Member States. Estonia supports the Secretary-General’s reform measures aimed at enhancing the Organization’s effectiveness and better implementation of its programmes by reducing excessive and unnecessary expenditures. With regard to the new scale of assessments, Estonia would like to see a more transparent scale based on the fundamental principle of capacity to pay to be adopted. All measures should lead towards putting the Organization on a sound and predictable financial footing. We believe that the main prerequisite for achieving this goal is that Member States clear their arrears to the regular as well as to the peacekeeping budgets. Estonia is committed to doing so. We welcome the appointment of Mrs. Mary Robinson, former President of Ireland, to the position of the High Commissioner for Human Rights. Estonia supports the plan for the consolidation of the Centre for Human Rights and the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights into one office. We would also like to stress the importance that we attach to adequate financing of the Organization’s human rights machinery. Two major events have occurred in the past year in the field of economic and social cooperation. The first of them was the adoption of the Agenda for Development. Estonia shares the perception of the importance of development issues for the United Nations. Health and education should also be high priorities. The second such event was the nineteenth special session of the General Assembly, the aim of which was to review the implementation of Agenda 21, the global plan of action for sustainable development adopted in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. Although the special session acknowledged the positive results which have been achieved since Rio, it also expressed concern over worsened overall trends for sustainable development. In this regard, we expect the fifty-second session of the General Assembly to give further political impetus to the implementation of the mandates and tasks defined at the session. In Estonia, we believe that our task today is to provide the present generation with the safe, good-quality living environment and resources needed to promote a strong and diversified economy without compromising the needs of future generations. For that reason, over the last five years Estonia has signed, ratified and acceded to more than 40 bilateral and multilateral environment agreements and conventions. We have also established the Governmental Commission on Sustainable Development, led by the Prime Minister. Estonia is working closely with the countries in the Baltic Sea area to develop a Baltic region sustainable development strategy. I would like to stress the importance that we attach to the consideration of economic and social issues by the General Assembly. With this in view, the work of the Second and Third Main Committees should be rationalized in order to avoid any overlap and duplication. One of the central areas of the reform concerns renewing the Security Council. This year, Member States must continue efforts to achieve the goal of making the Council more representative and to improve its working methods. Estonia elaborated its position in cooperation with a group of smaller like-minded countries. We support enlargement in both existing categories. We also view Germany and Japan as potential new permanent members of the Council. The developing countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America should also be represented on a permanent basis. Disarmament has been one of the United Nations priority goals since its founding. In fact, disarmament efforts have yielded considerable progress. The conclusion of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty last year was an important step forward. One of the important responsibilities of the United Nations is managing conflicts — acting rapidly in the face of crises. Peacekeeping continues to be an important activity of the Organization. In recent years, we have been witnessing a change in the role of United Nations peacekeeping missions. United Nations peacekeepers have 2 been facing the challenge of dealing with internal conflicts throughout the world. Estonia is continuing to take part in United Nations peacekeeping. An Estonian company has recently completed its successful deployment in the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL). Together with Latvia and Lithuania, we are looking forward to contributing a battalion of peacekeepers to the United Nations peacekeeping operations. The battalion, called BALTBAT, will be operational from the beginning of 1998. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to all Member States of the Organization that have been participating in this project. The initial experience of Baltic peacekeepers in United Nations peacekeeping missions has shown how regional cooperation evolves into global cooperation. The Baltic preparedness to merge as a joint battalion is an element strengthening regional security. It proves our readiness to assume responsibility as well as our right to choose our own means of security. Estonia is currently contributing civilian police officers and military observers. We have also joined the United Nations peacekeeping standby arrangement. We strongly believe in the cooperation of the United Nations with regional organizations in all parts of the world. Reliance on the expertise and capacities of these organizations would allow us to avoid duplication and allocate scarce resources in the most effective manner. We do have examples of fruitful cooperation with regional entities. In Europe, we have been witnessing joint United Nations actions, in particular with the Organization for Security and Cooperation (OSCE) in Europe and with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). We would like to note that the structure and composition of regional organizations is changing. The European Union and NATO are gradually opening to new members. This is a very important phenomenon in the process towards enhancing stability and security in our region. Estonia associates its future with full membership in both of these organizations. In conclusion, let me express my sincere hope that on the eve of the twenty-first century mankind is willing to reverse its classical interpretation of the past so eloquently expressed at the dawn of this century by the English novelist and poet Thomas Hardy: “War makes rattling good history; but Peace is poor reading.” [Thomas Hardy, The Dynasts, pt. II, Spirit Sinister]   ﻿On behalf of the Liechtenstein Government, I should like to congratulate the President on his election to preside over the fifty-second session of the General Assembly. I wish also to express my thanks and recognition to the Permanent Representative of Malaysia, Ambassador Razali Ismail, for the dynamic way in which he conducted the work of the fifty-first session. Further, I should like to pay tribute to Mr. Kofi Annan, our new Secretary-General. In the first nine months of his tenure, and at a particularly decisive time for the United Nations, he has shown great leadership qualities. I wish to assure him of our full support and cooperation. We live in a world that is more interdependent than ever before. Globalization implies that Governments and societies can best meet such global challenges as democracy, the eradication of poverty, the promotion and protection of human rights, sustainable development, humanitarian emergencies and refugee problems if they take action together. International problems require international solutions, and the world community must work together to deal with them on the basis of international law, through a constructive dialogue of the international community as a whole. This leads me to our Organization, which is a unique — indeed, the only — forum for such cooperation, and to the deep and far-reaching reform proposals which the Secretary-General, after a first reform package submitted in March, presented in his report (A/51/950) of 14 July 1997. Secretary-General Kofi Annan has taken on the challenging task of reform with the necessary combination of energy and circumspection. I wish first of all to state that we welcome the report and will lend our full support to achieving its objectives. I hope that the reform process will lead to concrete results before the end of this year. We share the opinion of those countries that have stressed that reform must not be a cost-cutting exercise but a matter of strengthening the role of the Organization as an active and effective world forum. We welcome and support the Secretary-General’s proposal to establish the post of a Deputy Secretary-General who will have a particular role in ensuring the success of activities and programmes that cross functional sectors and Secretariat units. We particularly support the Secretary- General’s suggestion to fill that post with a qualified woman. We also welcome the proposal to replace the Department of Humanitarian Affairs with an Office of the Emergency Relief Coordinator, and we hope that this measure will bring about the necessary changes to ensure a more efficient coordination of United Nations activities in this very important field. The Secretary-General has also suggested integrating human rights into all the principal activities of the United Nations, and we are fully supportive of this approach because it reflects the comprehensive and cross-cutting nature of human rights. We are gratified to see Mrs. Mary Robinson in her new post as United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. We wish her success in her challenging tasks and pledge to her our full support. We are confident that her appointment will give additional momentum to the promotion and protection of human rights worldwide and that the consolidation of her Office with the Centre for Human Rights will provide her with a solid institutional basis from which to take on her principal responsibility for United Nations human rights activities. That will be possible, however, only if the underfunding of human rights programmes that we have witnessed for so long finally comes to an end. Human rights are the legitimate concern of the international community, and this should be reflected in the appropriation of sufficient funds from the regular budget. We also continue to be very concerned about the precarious overall financial situation of the Organization, which is obviously linked to the failure of some Member States to fulfil their obligations regarding the prompt and full payment of their assessed financial contributions. It is important to note that the best reform efforts will be seriously hampered unless the Organization’s finances are put in order. Since we last met in New York for the general debate at the fifty-first session of the General Assembly, major — indeed, crucial — efforts have been undertaken to eliminate anti-personnel landmines. This matter has become a truly global cause, promoted by individuals and non-governmental organizations worldwide and propelled by Governments, which have committed themselves to the Ottawa process to achieve a global ban on landmines. This is of exemplary value. Liechtenstein remains committed to the elimination of anti-personnel landmines, and we therefore wholeheartedly support the results of the negotiations that were concluded recently at Oslo. We are particularly pleased that it was possible to agree on a final text which is simple, with no exceptions, no reservations and no loopholes. We are of the opinion that only such a treaty can bring us closer to the goal of the total elimination of anti-personnel landmines, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have made outstanding efforts in the course of the Ottawa process, 20 particularly the Governments of Canada, Austria, Belgium and Norway, as well as the International Committee of the Red Cross. While the adoption of the treaty will constitute a milestone in the history of both disarmament and international humanitarian law, further steps will be needed, and the participation of as many States as possible in the meeting which will bring the process back to Ottawa in December will be a crucial element in those efforts. Liechtenstein plans to sign the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on Their Destruction and is committed to its ratification at the earliest possible date. The establishment of an international criminal court is another area in which we have been able to make significant progress over the past year, and we are approaching the date of the diplomatic conference at which the statute of the court will be adopted. We wholeheartedly support the establishment of the international criminal court, which will constitute a milestone in the history of international law, and we continue to believe that that court has to be strong and independent if it is to make an effective contribution to the protection of human rights and the observance of international humanitarian law. It is of crucial importance that the General Assembly agree at this session on the precise dates for the diplomatic conference and that that decision allow for the fullest possible participation by small States, which have a particular interest in this matter. Two years ago, we adopted the Declaration and Platform of Action at the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing. Initiatives and actions have been taken towards the implementation of these commitments. The Liechtenstein Government has since taken a number of appropriate measures, while a comprehensive package containing detailed further action is presently being prepared. The role of women in preventive diplomacy and in peacekeeping and the persistent absence of women from peace negotiations are of particular concern to my delegation. The more active participation of women in conflict resolution should be promoted, since women bring different perspectives and innovative approaches to preventive diplomacy as well as to peacekeeping. The equal access and full participation of women in decision-making at all levels and in power structures, including challenging assignments, such as serving as special representatives of the Secretary-General, are also important in the area of the promotion and maintenance of peace and security. Special attention should be given to the situation of women in armed conflicts, including refugee women. Women are particularly vulnerable to discrimination and human rights violations, both before they flee and as refugees. In the Beijing Platform of Action, the need to provide protection, assistance and training to refugee women and displaced women is clearly recognized. Liechtenstein first introduced in 1991 an initiative on the right of self-determination, the ultimate goal of which is to enable States facing internal problems — be they between the central Government and communities or between communities within States — to cope with these problems in a peaceful and flexible manner on the basis of international law and through constructive dialogue. Ever since, we have consolidated and further developed our ideas, and we would like to thank all those who have given us active support in this endeavour. At the end of October, the Liechtenstein Research Program in Self-Determination at the Woodrow Wilson School of Princeton University will continue its series of conferences devoted to issues of self-government and self- administration. I would like to renew to all here our invitation to attend the next conference, which will take place from 31 October to 1 November. We hope that this conference will provide a deeper understanding of the complex issues underlying the concept of self- determination, which has played such an outstanding role in the history of our Organization. We hope that this initiative can be a positive contribution to the future work of the United Nations. The capacity of the United Nations to deal with the challenges of the future, however, will depend on our decisions on the reform of the Organization, decisions which we have to take now. Today, I wish to renew Liechtenstein’s commitment to the principles and purposes of the United Nations. We are willing to contribute to the extent possible so that this chance to renew the United Nations will not pass us by. ﻿I have the pleasure at the outset to extend to the President and his friendly country, Ukraine, my sincere congratulations on his election as President of the fifty- second session of the General Assembly. In wishing him success in conducting the proceedings of this session, I would like to assure him of my delegation's readiness to cooperate with him in making his task a success and in achieving the desired objectives of the session. It is also my pleasure to commend the dedicated efforts of the President's predecessor, Mr. Razali Ismail, in presiding over the fifty-first session of the General Assembly, and to express the thanks and appreciation of the State of Bahrain to him and to his friendly country, Malaysia. I would like to take this opportunity to express the State of Bahrain's appreciation for the tireless and sincere efforts that the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, has made since his appointment and of the great attention he pays to international issues and, to the reform of the Organization and strengthening its role in the maintenance of international peace and security. By virtue of his extensive experience in the United Nations, he has gained expertise in both international politics and the management of the Organization. I would be remiss in this connection if I did not express appreciation for the endeavours of the former Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and for his efforts and accomplishments with regard to reform of the Organization. We do not believe there has been in the history of our modern world a period more harmonious with the spirit of the United Nations or more expressive of its orientation than the current period. Had the Organization not been established half a century ago by a farsighted initiative of the founding Member States, it would have been incumbent upon the international community to proceed to create it now, at this important juncture in history. This is because current international developments relevant to various aspects of human life require the existence of such an Organization, which, by its composition and nature, and guided by its Charter, is equipped to handle world affairs, in the spirit of one great family. Not a single international issue is now beyond the scope of the Organization. The impression that the role of the United Nations has become marginal or marginalized in the wake of the cold war — true as it might be in certain isolated and limited situations and cases of international action — does not, in our conviction, reflect thoroughly and comprehensively the current stage of our world's history or the aspirations of all its States. Such aspirations require the existence of a world organization that is active and effective, not only in political and security affairs, but also, and increasingly so, in civilizational, developmental, economic, environmental, cultural and intellectual affairs. For increasingly, now that they have become the focus of attention of all nations, big and small, those non-political matters influence world affairs and the life and direction of peoples much more than political matters do. We have followed with interest the work of the General Assembly's Open-ended High-level Working Group on the Strengthening of the United Nations System and carefully studied the Secretary-General's report (A/51/950) to the General Assembly, “Renewing the United Nations: A Programme for Reform”, which he submitted on 14 July. We express our appreciation for the Secretary-General's invaluable efforts regarding the reform process, and the measures and recommendations contained in his report, and we would also welcome any General Assembly actions that would reflect the general attitude of Member States vis-à-vis the reform process that meets the current requirements and desires of Member States. My country is both interested in, and appreciative of, the work of the Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council and Other Matters Related to the Security Council, in view of the great increase in the United Nations membership. It should also be pointed out that it is in the interest of the reform process that the work of the Security Council be transparent so that all other Member States which are not members of the Council are aware of the latter's proceedings with regard to the reform process. Bahrain has presented its candidacy for Security Council membership for the period 1998-1999 in the elections that will take place during this session, based on the provisions of the Charter that allow participation for all Member States. The history of civilization has shown us that a number of smaller countries and peoples have, not less than the larger nations, taken the lead in progress, 12 development and creativity. The independent policy which the State of Bahrain has pursued throughout the 26 years that it has been a Member of the United Nations, has qualified its candidacy as meriting the support of the Group of Asian States for the non-permanent seat allocated to that Group. Moreover, Bahrain has a long record of constructive participation in support of United Nations activities and in support of the rights of peoples to independence, freedom and self-determination, in opposing apartheid and in supporting decolonization. It has also been actively involved in the work of the United Nations system and organs dealing with the fields of disarmament and economic and social development. In addition, Bahrain has bolstered Security Council efforts in the field of international peace and security, particularly in the Arab Gulf region, which prompted the Secretary-General to pay tribute to that role to which he referred in paragraph 816 of his 1996 annual report on the work of the Organization. He said: “The Government of Bahrain's support for the Commission's [the United Nations Special Commission] Field Office has been outstanding and remains essential to the continued logistics lifeline to the activities of the Commission” (A/51/1, para. 816). Furthermore, the State of Bahrain hosts a number of United Nations regional offices, including, in addition to the United Nations Special Commission (UNSCOM) Field Office, the offices of the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Environmental Programme, and the United Nations Information Centre. The State of Bahrain welcomes the endorsement its candidature for Council membership has received from the Asian Group, the Group of Arab States and the member States of the Gulf Cooperation Council, to which it belongs. Bahrain, noting the overwhelming support of the Member States, will have the pleasure to declare, when elected to the membership of the Council, that it will do its utmost, in cooperation with other Member States, to fulfil its duties towards the achievement of international peace and security and the upholding of the principles embodied in the Charter of the United Nations. Through its experience in its region and larger area, my country has played, since the early years of the twentieth century, a significant and leading role in the development of civilization, culture and society, in modernizing management and the economy, and in consolidating the bases of an advanced civil society — a pioneering role to which any objective historian of the development of civilization in the Gulf region will attest. The question of regional security remains of crucial importance to the State of Bahrain, in view of the dangerous ramifications and impacts it has on the security, stability and safety of peoples and nations. The situation in the Gulf region, which has witnessed in recent years two devastating wars that have upset the region's peace and stability and delayed the implementation of numerous development and construction projects, requires that all the States of the region and the world Powers with vital interests in the region promote and strengthen relations among the States of the region on the basis of good neighbourliness, mutual respect, non-interference in the internal affairs of others and recognition of every State's national sovereignty. The territorial and boundary claims currently witnessed in the Gulf region, aim at changing the established and traditionally accepted boundaries, disturbing the security and stability of the region. We believe that the optimum and most judicious course to avoid that prospect is to respect the status quo; to refrain from any claims, total or partial; and to settle any consequential disagreements by peaceful means acceptable to the parties to the dispute. Insofar as the situation between Iraq and Kuwait is concerned, the State of Bahrain, being keen on the maintenance of security and stability in the Gulf region, stresses that Iraq should fully comply with the requirements of international legitimacy and uphold its commitments under relevant Security Council resolutions, including those relating to the release of prisoners and detainees of Kuwaiti and other nationalities. Bahrain is also keen on ensuring the unity and territorial integrity of Iraq and opposes any interference in Iraqi internal affairs, as any such interference is considered a violation of the sovereignty of a Member State of the Organization. The State of Bahrain also expresses its satisfaction that the oil-for-food agreement between the United Nations and Iraq is alleviating the suffering of the brotherly Iraqi people. In the same context, the continued occupation by the Islamic Republic of Iran of the three islands, Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa, all of which belong to the United Arab Emirates, constitutes an important cause for anxiety and concern to the State of Bahrain and the 13 other member States of the Gulf Cooperation Council, in view of the occupation's serious consequences for the security and stability of the region and the effect it has on good-neighbourly relations among the States of the region. Consequently, the State of Bahrain calls upon the Islamic Republic of Iran to respond urgently to the calls of the United Arab Emirates to resolve the question of the islands through serious bilateral negotiations or through any other available peaceful means for the settlement of disputes through reconciliation among States. The ominous setbacks and impediments that have beset the Middle East peace process which threaten that process and pose dangers to the entire region are but the result of Israel's non-adherence to the basic premises underlying the process since the Madrid Conference in 1991 and to the agreements which emerged from the negotiations that followed between the parties concerned. Only through compliance with those commitments, which are based on Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978), the implementation of the land-for-peace principle, and refraining from any actions that contravene those commitments, can there be a viable basis for getting the peace process back on its proper track and the achievement of progress on the Syrian and Lebanese tracks as well. A just, comprehensive and lasting peace in the region is not conceivable without the return of the occupied territories to their owners and the recognition of the Palestinian people's right to have their own independent state on their own national soil, with Jerusalem as its capital. For a just and comprehensive peace to be attained, it is essential that Arab rights be restored, in accordance with the relevant United Nations resolutions, which call for the complete withdrawal of Israel from the occupied Syrian Golan, southern Lebanon and the occupied Palestinian territories, including, most importantly, Jerusalem. The State of Bahrain has endorsed the peace process since its inception in Madrid in 1991. It has participated in all the committees that have been established in connection with the process and has hosted a meeting of the environmental committee. This was in support of endeavours to achieve a just and comprehensive peace in the region, which should be the strategic option of all States of that region. A just peace which can guarantee that people's legitimate rights are restored is what will ensure security, stability and prosperity for the region's peoples. The continued strife in Somalia has brought destruction and devastation to the Somali people. We reiterate our appeal to all warring factions to implement all agreements reached so far and to exert concerted efforts with a view to reaching a genuine and durable solution to the problem in order to preserve the unity, sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of Somalia. With respect to the situation in Afghanistan, we call for an immediate end to the fighting among the sons who belong to the same homeland, for support of the efforts being made to this end, and for the achievement of national reconciliation with a view to preserving the sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence of Afghanistan without any external interference. The State of Bahrain reiterates its support for the Dayton Agreement concerning peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It calls for full and complete implementation of that Agreement and for the creation of conditions that allow for the voluntary return of refugees and displaced persons in complete safety and security. Such steps would enhance national reconciliation and help preserve peace and stability in the region as a whole. As we reiterate our support for the unity, independence and territorial integrity of the Republic of Cyprus, we welcome the efforts of the Secretary-General aimed at the achievement of a just and practicable settlement in accordance with relevant Security Council resolutions. The international arena has witnessed terrorist acts whose repercussions have gone beyond the boundaries of the countries concerned. Violence has become so rampant and ferocious that it is possible to say that terrorist acts constitute crimes against the world order, the vital interests of nations, the peace and security of humanity and the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals. The spread of terrorism has caused the death of hundreds of innocent people and the destruction of public and private property, thus shaking internal stability and impeding the normal development of relations between States. Consequently, my country calls upon the international community to seek the best possible ways and means for the elimination of all serious crimes of a terrorist nature. In this connection, the State of Bahrain expresses its support for the provisions adopted by the General Assembly in its relevant resolutions 49/60 and 51/210, and hopes that the international community will cooperate in the elaboration of a strategy for cooperation between 14 States with a view to combating terrorism and not providing havens to terrorist organizations. Furthermore, States should allow neither their territories nor their media to be used, nor their civil liberties systems to be exploited, to the detriment of other States. Bahrain, being a party to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, is of the view that the Treaty should achieve universality without any considerations or exceptions restricting it. At the same time, it would like to stress that the Treaty, as a vital pillar for the maintenance of international peace and security, should be upheld, its provisions respected and its purposes pursued till fulfilment. It considers Security Council resolution 984 (1995), albeit limited in terms of safeguards, a first positive step towards the achievement of comprehensive security safeguards for all non-nuclear-weapon States. Because it believes that international cooperation is essential for ridding our world of all weapons of mass destruction, the State of Bahrain ratified last April the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction. Convinced of the importance of peace, stability and mutual confidence in the Middle East, it has also endorsed the initiative aimed at establishing the region as a zone free of nuclear and all other weapons of mass destruction. The world economy is currently experiencing a period of growth which, according to the estimates of this year's World Economic and Social Survey, is expected to reach 3 per cent this year. An observer of the economic conditions in developing countries, however, can perceive the extent of the difficulties faced by those countries in their endeavours to raise their economic level to the bare minimum and so enable their citizens to live with dignity. The close link between economic development and social development has become a cornerstone of the security and stability of societies, both in developing and developed countries. Yet the rising social tensions that we witness in numerous societies in developing countries, emanating from economic problems, underlines the need to address and deal with that phenomenon at the international level. When developed countries contribute to the development of the economic systems in developing countries they do not, in so doing, merely assist those countries; they also enable the developing countries to become an effective economic partner, which can assist the developed countries in combating the scourge of unemployment, inflation and economic stagnation. The inability to strike a balance between social and economic issues and the preservation and management of the resources needed for development, coupled with an increasing emphasis on environmental protection, has undermined development, a cornerstone of Agenda 21, which was adopted by the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. It is therefore imperative that international agreements reached and commitments made during that Conference be implemented, and that measures to speed up the implementation of the Agenda be identified without any need to reopen discussions on matters already agreed upon. The issues addressed by the nineteenth special session of the General Assembly last June, in which Bahrain took part, for the purpose of an overall review and appraisal of the implementation of Agenda 21, were more detailed and specific in so far as poverty eradication and environmental protection are concerned, although the desired results have not been attained. The destructive effects on humanity of drug and psychotropic substance abuse, production and illicit traffic are among the most serious challenges we face. We therefore welcome the convening of a special session of the General Assembly in 1998 to be devoted to this question and related crimes and to the achievement of tangible results in relation to the objectives envisaged in resolution 51/64 concerning the negative and destructive implications of drug abuse, on the basis of the principle of joint responsibility in confronting the illicit drug trade. Collective measures should also be taken to solve this problem, which constitutes a common threat to the international community. In the light of the new world realities, the United Nations should play a more effective role in providing organizational frameworks and appropriate forums to enable various Member States to contribute within their capacities and capabilities to the reshaping of our modern world, tending towards increased closeness and interaction on various planes of human activity. The current period, characterized by cascading changes, requires a joint intellectual vision on the part of all Member States of the Organization and their peoples with respect to what should be done for the common good of mankind and to prepare for it. Such a vision should transcend visions of conflicting ideologies, which characterized the world of the cold war as well as the predictions of future clashes of civilizations. 15 It is also vital that the United Nations create a favourable climate and appropriate management whereby it can provide, in addition to the basic functions it undertakes, a veritable forum for world thought, into which will flow a variety of opinions, emanating from various regions, civilizations and experiences. Thus, the Organization may help crystallize an overall human vision conducive to understanding, peace and cooperation, rather than a situation in which new adversaries and enemies are sought for one side or another. The current period also requires us to bring about cohesion and integration among the various elements in the flow of information and satellite transmissions from every corner of the Earth. The volume of this information is enormous, its sources diverse and its objectives conflicting; it has deluged societies. It is difficult to absorb all this information, and perceptions of it are often confused. Unless a common, comprehensive and inclusive vision is found to restore cohesion and compatibility to this great mass of information, the world will be threatened with intellectual chaos that could take it back to a time when disorder and contradictions held sway in mankind's vision. No global mechanism is better suited to be the proper means and the appropriate international forum for this universal intellectual task than the United Nations. It should at this stage provide direction and guidance for all aspects of international cooperation, both within the framework of the Organization and at the regional and national levels. While we look forward to such a comprehensive vision for our modern world, we must stress that it would be prudent not to let globalization — which is a natural and acceptable phenomenon in the context of technology, science, production, economic and information systems and the related material components of our common human civilization — be imposed, especially through coercion or pressure, on special spiritual, religious, cultural and political attributes. If it is, the world will fall into the abyss of futile ethnic, cultural and religious feuds. Development of the moral aspects of civilizations and systems can only occur gradually, through inner conviction, and in tandem with the logical internal development of each structure and system rather than through technological development that spreads rapidly from civilization to civilization. Coerced imposition of globalization on any spiritual or moral facet of a society, especially through external sources, would constitute a wrongful revival of political and cultural colonialism, whose cumbersome legacy and adverse effects the world has barely eradicated. It is our hope that if it builds on the remarkable role it played in the elimination of the old form of colonialism, the United Nations will be able to play a positive part in steering the process of globalization in the right direction and in preventing the unilateral takeover of a world of diverse spiritual cultures and civilizations. In view of the Organization's contribution to the preservation of world peace and security and the role it continues to play in support of the causes of peace and justice and in the implementation of the principles of international legitimacy, its activities in the field of preventive diplomacy and peacekeeping operations, and its constructive role in resolving numerous questions and crises, it is incumbent upon us to make available to the United Nations all possible moral and material support and to cooperate with it and with its specialized agencies. Hence the importance, in our view, of formulating within the framework of the United Nations a balanced intellectual vision which, in addition to bringing out elements which are common to all peoples, would be based on respect for legitimate pluralism as it relates to special spiritual, moral and political attributes. In the absence of such a balanced vision, our world is apt to continue to be threatened with imbalance, instability and a lack of security. ﻿On behalf of the Brazilian delegation, I would like to congratulate you, my dear colleague, Hennadiy Udovenko, the Foreign Minister of Ukraine, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session. Brazil has a significant and active community of Ukrainian origin. We Brazilians are thus very glad to see this session headed by a distinguished son of the Ukraine, a country that is close to us. I want to express my recognition to the Permanent Representative of Malaysia, Ambassador Razali Ismail, for the way he conducted the work of the fifty-first session. Ambassador Razali's dynamic presidency paved the way, through extensive consultation, for an imaginative and comprehensive proposal to advance Security Council reform. I also pay tribute to our new Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, chosen to oversee the political and administrative challenges of modernization. He has been the focus of justifiable expectation on the part of the international community at a difficult moment in the life of our Organization. We welcome the Secretary-General's proposals for reform and institutional strengthening as a sign of renewed vitality within the United Nations. These proposals and Ambassador Razali's contribution will certainly warrant close attention in the General Assembly and in parallel consultation. We will help to consolidate a new spirit that should inspire our Organization. This new spirit is called leadership - that driving force of history altering the course of events within countries and in the international scenario, opening new horizons, giving hope to the peoples of the world, seeing movement where some can only stand still. Ambassador Razali and Secretary-General Kofi Annan have, in a way, revived the leadership of the creators of the United Nations. They have shown the same idealism in establishing goals and pragmatism in carrying them out. It was also the leadership of men such as Dag Hammarskjöld and Brazilian statesman Oswaldo Aranha, twice President of this Assembly, that often led the United Nations to a decisive role as a factor of change in international relations. This kind of leadership has given the world a forum without parallel in history, a stage for negotiation and a political force in favour of international peace and security. Although the United Nations has not always been able to prevent or to deter conflict, it has certainly reduced its occurrence and avoided some of its more serious consequences. For this reason, the United Nations has been a mandatory reference, a sign of hope and a moral force for world public opinion. We are witnessing today the rebirth of this leadership, feeling its effects through a remarkable change in the heart and soul of our Organization. There is greater optimism. There is greater motivation among delegates and staff. There is greater expectation on the part of many Governments. A new atmosphere of hope embraces the United Nations. This is something we must nurture and promote - something we must filter to the public in order to renew the trust of the international community in our Organization. The agenda of the fifty-second session is vast and reveals the continuing complexity and the numerous conflicts of interests that animate international relations in our times. A new international dynamic combines three positive impulses: first, modernization and political and economic opening in most countries; secondly, economic integration in regional contexts, with multiple political and security benefits; and thirdly, the internationalization of the economy on a global scale. These impulses tend to generate, foster and consolidate international peace and security. They are based on confidence and understanding and should allow us to prosper and achieve the desired material and spiritual results. Economic integration is increasingly the great bulwark of international peace and cooperation. It must be given emphasis and further promoted. 4 Precisely because of its many political and economic benefits, integration is a defining trait of South America's reality, a direct consequence of democracy and economic freedom. The Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR), a new and powerful impetus for development in the region, is an example of the importance of integration. With democracy firmly rooted and a dynamic process of integration, South America has a reduced potential for conflict. It has the lowest rates of military spending in the world and is following an economic course based on strict government budget controls. Our priorities are stability and development. Arms purchases are compatible with the defense needs of Latin American countries. They are aimed at replacing obsolete or exhausted equipment. Recently announced measures in the strategic-military domain will not affect these fundamental parameters. The concrete interests that bring together the countries of South America - trade, investment and the reinforcement of our international standing through MERCOSUR - are an unyielding factor of unity and cohesion. There is no threat of military destabilization in Latin America. There is no danger of an arms race in the absence of political, economic and strategic conditions for such. A regional initiative towards self-imposed limitations on conventional arms purchases is therefore unjustified. It would be tantamount to disarming those already disarmed. Our preoccupation, on the other hand, should be the fight against the arms trade that sustains organized crime and drug trafficking. This is the real and grave problem perpetuating a major source of instability that has, unfortunately, also affected our region severely. Only determined and coordinated action on the part of the international community, especially through tighter controls on the production and selling of weapons in private hands, can curb or even suppress this trade; which feeds crime cartels and leads to violence, fear and desperation. Brazil strongly urges all countries, and particularly those in the Western Hemisphere, to intensify cooperation in the fight against arms trafficking. We have taken great strides in areas of concern and growing visibility. Disarmament and, most specifically, efforts towards the elimination of anti-personnel landmines have increasingly held the attention of the international community. Today, we can speak of significant accomplishments, such as the signing of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and the willingness of an overwhelming majority to make firm commitments, expressed at the Oslo Conference on anti-personnel landmines. In these two instances, Brazil has sought to add its own efforts to those of the international community. This was the main thrust of President Fernando Henrique Cardoso's decision to submit the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) to congressional approval. Brazil can and should make an additional contribution to nuclear disarmament. We want to take a constructive part in discussions within the framework created by the indefinite extension of the NPT, the most universal of disarmament treaties. This is also the guideline for our participation in the Oslo conference and in the Ottawa process. Brazil stands firmly behind the interdiction of landmines in all types of conflict. The international community should do everything in its power to help poor countries devastated by war. They suffer the perverse and prolonged effects of landmines irresponsibly planted in their territories. The interdiction of anti-personnel landmines and their removal must become an effective commitment on the part of the international community. This a question of ethics, a question of observing the most elementary principles of humanitarian law. We hope that the international convention agreed upon in Oslo and the important commitments it enshrines find universal acceptance. These positive tendencies might lead to the impression that the United Nations is less in demand today than 10, 20 or 50 years ago. This is a false impression. We are still subject to the effects of disintegrating factors. Some are, unfortunately, by-products of new global trends, such as marginalization within and among nations, transnational crime and conflicts of interest that find expression through violence and the threat or use of force. The persistent and overbearing nature of terrorism continues to be one of the most serious threats to international peace and development. It breeds despair and suffering. In the Middle East, terrorism and intolerance jeopardize a peace process that was once full of promise for the peoples of the region. In other countries, some of them in Latin America, terrorist acts reveal the existence of groups that still insist on employing tactics incompatible with the values of civilization and human dignity. We must not falter in condemning those who, in disregard of all moral values, resort to cowardly violence in seeking to advance their own obscure purposes. Brazil is emphatic in repelling these practices and exhorts the 5 international community to spare no effort in the fight against terrorism, whatever its form or the alleged reasoning behind it. In addition, conflicts that had apparently been surmounted by a spirit of understanding and constructive action on the part of the United Nations still show signs of resistance that demand a strong reaction from the international community. Angola is a case in point. Hope and promise cannot be constantly undermined by the factors that have wrought so much destruction and suffering upon a valiant people to whom we Brazilians feel so closely linked. Angola is now a decisive test for the United Nations. We cannot accept even the slightest possibility of regression. Brazil, currently holding the presidency of the Community of Portuguese-Speaking Countries, calls upon the international community, and in particular the members of the Security Council, to exercise close scrutiny over the Angolan peace process. We must do everything to ensure that the people of Angola once again find the road of development in a context of democracy and pluralism. The United Nations has an irreplaceable role in a world that still combines forces of integration and cooperation with forces of disintegration and aggression. But we have allowed the United Nations to lose its strength as an instrument of universal peace and understanding and as a promoter of cooperation and development. We have done this through inaction, through a lack of consensus, through obstructionism and through excessive politicization of issues. We must react to this situation. We must once again find the cardinal notion of leadership. The past few years have shown that reform of the United Nations can no longer be put off. We cannot lose sight of major institutional issues or waste further precious energy. The report of the Secretary-General entitled 'Renewing the United Nations: A Programme for Reform' is thus timely and opportune. The Brazilian Government welcomes it with satisfaction and enthusiasm. The strength of our Organization derives from its universality and from the all-encompassing nature of its mandate. The United Nations must not be held to the performance of tasks better suited to other international organizations or specialized agencies. We cannot be made prisoners of inertia, nor must we condemn our debates to irrelevancy. The General Assembly must urgently move towards an agenda focused on what is essential to ensuring a relevant role for the United Nations in international affairs. For the United Nations to make a difference and provide leadership in today's complex world, it must recover the original meaning of the Charter by concentrating on its essential mission: maintaining international peace and security, promoting justice and international law, strengthening cooperation for development, protecting human rights and providing humanitarian assistance. Member States must create political conditions for effective action by the United Nations and make the commitment to setting priorities and eliminating the superfluous. Only then will our Organization as a whole - not just the Secretariat - be able to devote itself to those fundamental tasks. The Secretary-General has assumed a leadership role by putting forth ideas that must be objectively discussed by all Member States. Brazil is committed to working constructively with Mr. Kofi Annan on his proposals to strengthen our Organization. Brazil has taken an active part in the debate on reform of the Security Council. We have adopted an open-minded and constructive approach because we believe this to be a central element in the reform of the Organization. Brazil has upheld a concept of reform that would strengthen the Council and the United Nations as a whole. It is not geared to the individual interests of any one country. We want the Council to be representative of contemporary international realities, as it was in its early years. The Council must be enlarged both in its permanent membership, to take account of the industrialized and the developing worlds, and in its non-permanent membership, to allow for more frequent participation by interested States. We repudiate all discrimination in the conception or assignment of new seats. We must not create a third or fourth category of member. This would weaken and depreciate the participation of the developing world, and of Latin America in particular, in the reform process and in an enlarged Council. We have always said that in identifying new permanent members we must exercise realism and pragmatism by means of a democratic selection process that leads to universally recognized representation without renouncing regional support. Brazil has expressed, through President Fernando Henrique Cardoso, its willingness to accept the responsibilities of permanent membership in the Security Council, if called upon by the international community to do so. In such a case, Brazil would be determined to carry out the role of permanent member as the representative of Latin America and the 6 Caribbean. We want our region to be present in the Security Council on a permanent basis and, through ample coordination and consultation, to have an even stronger collective voice. The Brazilian Government notes with satisfaction that we are moving, if not towards consensus, at least in the direction of a significant majority in favour of certain basic notions about how to reform the Security Council, particularly enlargement of its permanent membership to take account of the developing world. The proposal by Ambassador Razali, presently under discussion in the Working Group, constitutes a firm basis for a negotiating process leading to a decision by the General Assembly. Ambassador Razali has helped us regain the ideal of Council reform as a means of strengthening the entire Organization. Our priority is now to define the most suitable format for an enlarged Security Council. This must be the prime focus of attention. The international community needs a strong, efficient and ever-present United Nations. We will continue to rely on the political body with the universality and moral strength that, in the history of humankind, only the United Nations has been able to muster. We must display in this session the determination to create the conditions for the United Nations to be an effective instrument for promoting international peace and security. The same spirit of leadership that we have seen in the Secretary-General and in Ambassador Razali has driven many delegations. A new willingness to make a constructive contribution to the Security Council reform process and to other reforms is clearly felt by Member States. There is a new thrust to negotiations. There is leadership, as well as carefully crafted proposals. We must take advantage of this unique opportunity in the history of the United Nations. We must not let the moment pass. Reform has become more than a key concept; it has become the order of the day for the United Nations in 1997. Let us do it with that 'fierce urgency of now' felt by Martin Luther King, a symbol of political leadership and of the forces of change in our century. 'This is no time', said King in his most famous speech, 'to engage in the luxury of cooling off or to take the tranquillizing drug of gradualism. Now is the time...'. Let us do it, then.  ﻿Allow me to begin by congratulating you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session. Costa Rica joins the previous expressions of appreciation that have been addressed to you and wishes you every success in this period that will be remembered for its special contribution to the reform of this highest forum of international politics. Ten years ago Central America surprised the world by proclaiming peace. Ten years ago nations separated by hatred and divided by ancestral injustices decided to put an end to their differences through dialogue and reconciliation and to move, without haste, but also without delay, towards a more promising future of equality and sustainable development. The world has changed greatly in this decade. The walls of intolerance fell in Berlin and in Pretoria; the 20 Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo have not lost any more children. There is no doubt that we live in turbulent times but, most world leaders, regardless of their religion or ethnic origin, subscribe to the widespread conviction that the models of the cold war cannot guide us through the new millennium. Moreover at the global level, despite the temporary images from Sarajevo, Kigali, Rwanda and Monrovia, there prevails a vision of a twenty-first century in which democracy, reason and justice reign. My people believes in peace. My people believes in disarmament. My people believes that the destiny of the human family is one of harmony and solidarity under the auspices of international law. These beliefs are not the product of intellectual speculation. Costa Rica has lived for more than 100 years in a democracy protected by pluralism and respect for human rights. My compatriots, men and women, are aware that they are the sons and daughters of a nation whose history proves that there is no force stronger than that of reason. This is why, when our armed forces were abolished as a standing institution in 1948, almost at the same time as the United Nations was being born, Costa Rica declared peace to the world and thus unequivocally showed its profound love for harmony among all the peoples of the world. Central America comes to this forum united around an ideal of common integration and working together on a shared democratic project. For the first time in history, our countries come before the General Assembly to declare not just their reiterated adherence to the Charter and to the principles and obligations inherent in civilized coexistence in the community of nations, but also their intention to march decisively towards unity as a higher stage in the communitarian partnership that we already enjoy under the 1991 Protocol of Tegucigalpa. For the last three years, Central America has made a great effort to link up with the rest of the world, something we regard as essential if we are to realize the objectives and priorities of our Alliance for Sustainable Development. This initiative, signed in 1994, was the first in the world to be adopted since the Declaration of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development. The fruits of this effort have been abundant. Central America has established preferential relations with Canada, Chile, the United States, Japan, Mexico, the Republic of Korea and the European Union. The biggest innovation has been the definition of agendas based not on short-term interests, but on regional strategic priorities. We are now concentrating on improving integration by thoroughly reforming regional institutions. Convinced that economic growth can be achieved only if accompanied by increasing levels of sustainable development, the Central American countries wish to inform the international community of our decision to move forward resolutely towards a common future, a future of great progress and solidarity for our peoples. The world today is still diverse, still divided. Many cultures and societies live on a single shared planet. In today’s complex scenario, now that the Cold War is over, divisions remain and new dangers threaten international society. This is why the United Nations continues to be the meeting point, the unifying institution for all of us. It will continue to play that important role, provided we shoulder our commitments, face our challenges and make progressive changes. Since our Secretary-General presented his proposals for reform in July, the Central American countries have expressed firm support for his ideas about a modern, efficient, nimble Organization with better coordination in line with current administrative and financial trends, an Organization enabling us, without further delay, to move from lofty aspirations to real actions that will help everybody, especially those in developing countries, which comprise the overwhelming majority of the members of this body. We take this opportunity to reiterate our clear and firm support for the Secretary- General’s proposals submitted to Member States for consideration at this session. United Nations reform should be accompanied by a constructive review of the scale of assessments. In Central America we believe that the criteria for the scale of assessments need to be changed so that all Member States contribute financially to the Organization in accordance with their means. The Central American countries believe that the international peace and security system designed in 1945 should be subject to detailed review in a broad and consensual exercise. In principle, we support the idea of increasing the number of Member States with permanent membership in the Security Council. We believe, at the same time, that any such proposal must be democratic and representative of the plurality of States and regions that make up the United Nations. In particular, we strongly support the argument that the three developing regions of the world should have permanent representation in that organ and that the veto power, if 21 there is no willingness to eliminate it, should be confined to topics under Chapter VII of the Charter. The founders of the United Nations saw a world that had to decide between peace and extermination. Still affected by the Second World War, they were well placed to understand that humanity had no other choice but to shelter under the protection of international law as the only way of preventing a new Holocaust. More than 50 years later, we have a similar duty, but one that is less dramatic thanks to the significant progress made since the end of the Cold War: the duty to provide the United Nations with the political, financial and administrative conditions it needs so that it can continue its work for peace and international security. Central America is ready to make its contribution so that these noble objectives may be attained.   ﻿Let me express my pleasure at seeing you, Sir, the Foreign Minister of Ukraine — with which Austria has close historical links and enjoys excellent relations — presiding over the General Assembly. We are confident that your profound professional experience in the United Nations system and your negotiating skills will ensure substantial progress in our ambitious agenda. On behalf of the Federal Government of Austria, I should also like to express our sincere appreciation to Secretary-General Kofi Annan, whose wise leadership of the Organization we fully support. In the short time since he took office he has succeeded in reaching out not only to Governments but also to the people and the media, thus fostering a new awareness about the goals, aspirations and achievements of the United Nations as the indispensable instrument of global cooperation. My colleague from Luxembourg has already expressed the position of the European Union, which we fully endorse. I should like to elaborate on a few points to which Austria attaches particular importance. The United Nations is currently preparing itself for the challenges of the twenty-first century. The Secretary-General and his team, with the encouragement of Member States, have initiated comprehensive reform. Austria welcomes this major effort to redirect the Organization towards the needs of the future, and we fully endorse the Secretary-General's proposals. In particular I should like to emphasize the following points: first, the streamlining of leadership and management structure; secondly, the consolidation of the United Nations presence in the field; thirdly, the return of development to the centre of United Nations activities and the better combining of the potential of United Nations funds and programmes; and, fourthly, the strengthening of human rights in all aspects of the work of the United Nations. 8 Without adequate resources, however, the United Nations will not succeed in carrying out its tasks. As long as Member States do not fully honour their obligations, the financial situation of the Organization will remain critical. Settling the arrears is therefore an imperative. Austria is proud of its traditional record of paying its contributions to the United Nations in full and on time. The serious political will and sincere commitment of every Government will be required. Needless to say, unilateral decisions are unacceptable in the framework of multilateral cooperation. The fight against drugs, crime and terrorism has rightly become a first priority for the international community. Nearly 1 per cent of the world's population above the age of 15 today has abused stimulants. An estimated 300 tons of heroin a year have been produced during this decade to supply about 8 million addicts. While I hope that regional cooperation will soon contribute effectively to the fight against illegal trafficking and drug abuse, the Secretary-General's intention to strengthen the United Nations capacities in this field deserves the support of all Member States. Austria will cooperate closely with the newly appointed Director-General of the United Nations Office at Vienna, Mr. Pino Arlacchi. We are convinced that his profound knowledge and experience in fighting organized crime will be a strong asset in pooling the resources of the United Nations system, the Member States and relevant institutions. To demonstrate its support, Austria will make a significant financial contribution to the United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Trust Fund. Illegal migration is increasingly linked to transnational crime. The reckless exploitation of humans in distress is a particularly reprehensible form of international crime. An increasing number of people smuggled illegally across borders find themselves helpless victims deprived of all financial means and with an illegal status in a foreign country. The perpetrators, at the same time, earn the profits and escape justice by cynically making use of a loophole in the international criminal law regime. There is an urgent need for an international legal instrument making the smuggling of illegal migrants punishable as a transnational crime, thus ensuring that the perpetrators are brought to justice. I have asked legal experts to prepare a draft international convention against the smuggling of illegal migrants. This draft is being circulated as an official document under the appropriate agenda item. We propose that the United Nations Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice consider this draft as a matter of priority at its next session. I am confident that our initiative will help in closing a dangerous legal lacuna, thereby strengthening international judicial cooperation in this field. Substance abuse and drug-related crimes continue to take a high toll in both the developing and the industrialized worlds. Human and social development is threatened on a global scale. Strengthening and updating existing international anti-drug capacities will require innovation and new methods. In this respect, the special session of the General Assembly devoted to international drug control, which is to be held in June 1998, will provide us with an excellent opportunity to renew our political commitment by closing our ranks against illegal drug trafficking and striving jointly for progress in preventive efforts. Anti-personnel landmines constitute a particularly malicious threat to the security of individuals and countries. Even decades after the end of a conflict, such as the Second World War, these hidden killers take a terrible toll among civilian populations, killing or maiming more than 20,000 people each and every year. Every year 20 times more mines are laid than cleared. Estimates speak of 110 million mines laid in more than 60 countries. I think that this spiral of death must be stopped. Austria was one of the first countries to ban anti- personnel landmines at the national level. We strongly advocated a total ban, and we prepared the draft for such a convention. Non-governmental organizations have played a prominent role in creating the necessary momentum, and I would like to thank them respectfully for that on behalf of the Austrian Government. The Oslo Diplomatic Conference negotiated a treaty on this basis, and I look forward to signing the Convention in Ottawa, together with so many of my colleagues who share this goal. I urge the countries that were not able to join the consensus in Oslo to become part of the process as soon as possible. Ted Turner has generously earmarked a part of his unprecedented $1 billion donation to support intensified demining efforts. I wish to thank him for this unique gesture. 9 The dignity and worth of the human person are universal. Consequently, it is the duty of our universal Organization to help implement governmental commitments in this field. Since the Vienna World Conference on Human Rights, human rights have moved into the centre of United Nations programmes and activities. Austria welcomes this trend. There is an intrinsic relationship between respect for human rights, democracy and sustainable development. Guaranteeing human rights is an essential precondition for lasting security and stability. This link has been highlighted by the Secretary-General in his commendable report on the work of the Organization. I take this opportunity to warmly welcome the appointment of President Mary Robinson as High Commissioner for Human Rights and to pledge Austria's full support for her work. Her outstanding personality will undoubtedly contribute to further strengthening the United Nations role in human rights. The review of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action and the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights make 1998 the year of human rights. This will provide us with a unique opportunity to shape the international human rights programme for the new millennium. Its central objective must remain that international human rights standards be respected at the level of each nation. For this, the role of Governments is crucial; so is that of civil society. The international community, therefore, not only has to ensure compliance with these commitments and provide the necessary assistance, but it must also promote the role of civil society. We see this year of human rights as an occasion for reaching out to human rights defenders in all corners of the world. As host country of the World Conference and as the country assuming the presidency of the European Union in the second half of 1998, Austria offers its cooperation to ensure a successful human rights year 1998 in all parts of the world. Austria places great emphasis on the promotion and protection of minorities. We do so on the basis of our historical experience and owing to our conviction that ethnic minorities do not threaten but rather enrich our societies. In this context, I am pleased to refer to the successful solution of an important minority issue. The Austrian minority in South Tyrol today enjoys a well- balanced autonomy on the basis of the Paris Treaty of 1946 between Austria and Italy. This autonomy has generated considerable interest in other parts of the world. With regard to the human rights year, the implementation of the Beijing Platform continues to be a priority. In particular, Austria supports efforts to strengthen the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. We also are contributing to the enhanced practical implementation of other international human rights treaties, such as the Convention on the Rights of the Child, in particular with regard to juvenile justice. Employment, as a matter of growing global concern, rightly ranks high on the political agenda. Governments are urged to develop further instruments to fight unemployment through the effective monitoring of labour policies. The World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen provided a set of principles and goals in this respect. In order to confirm these commitments and to identify good practices, I should like to recall that Austria, as a follow-up to Copenhagen, will host an international expert meeting on employment in early February 1998. In our joint efforts to promote sustainable development, the peaceful use of outer space for the benefit of all countries has become an issue of rapidly growing importance to the United Nations in the last few years. I should like to reaffirm the full support of my country for the United Nations aim to expand activities in this field. We welcome the holding of the third United Nations Conference on the Exploration and Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, which will be convened as a special session of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, open to all Member States, in Vienna in July 1999. My country is deeply committed to the peace process in the former Yugoslavia, in particular in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Dayton accords provide the framework for the return of Bosnia to normalcy and stability, for its economic recovery and for reconciliation among its ethnic groups. Full and comprehensive implementation of the Dayton Agreement is therefore imperative. This includes bringing to justice all indicted war criminals, wherever they may be. If we want to safeguard the Dayton process, the international community must remain firmly committed to taking the necessary political, economic and military measures even beyond July 1998. International support must remain conditional on full compliance with all international obligations. I should like to pay a special tribute to the United Nations Transitional Administration for Eastern 10 Slavonia, Baranja and Western Sirmium, which has made an invaluable contribution to fostering peace in that region. Austria is in favour of integrating the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia fully into the United Nations family as soon as the necessary preconditions, including the application for membership, are fulfilled. In this respect, I stress our expectation that Belgrade will grant a large degree of autonomy to Kosovo and the Albanian minority. Austria has followed the situation in the Middle East with great concern. We regret the fact that the peace process has come to a near-standstill. The confidence built up by the Oslo process has been largely destroyed. Our main task must be to re-establish and to strengthen this confidence step by step and to bring the parties back to the negotiating table. The present situation increases the risk of extremist activity. A precondition for progress in the peace process will certainly be respect by all parties for the agreements concluded and the engagements undertaken. Austria is seriously preoccupied by the precarious economic and social situation in the Palestinian territories, where the unemployment rate is 70 per cent. It is of paramount importance to create the necessary economic conditions as a basis for political stability. There will be no lasting peace without a credible response to the economic needs of the people in the region. Since 1960, Austria has participated very actively in United Nations peacekeeping operations. Considering the growing importance in contemporary peacekeeping of regional arrangements under Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United Nations, my country has started to cooperate closely with those States and organizations that have taken leading roles in this field. In 1997 Austria provided about 1,200 troops, military observers and civilian police to 11 different peacekeeping operations throughout the world, including the Stabilization Force (SFOR) and the operation in Albania. Austria actively supports the standby arrangement system, created in 1994, and in this connection took part in establishing the United Nations Stand-by Forces High- Readiness Brigade in December 1996, which was created to build a capacity for quick preventive action and crisis response. I am deeply convinced that, especially in times of scarce financial resources, the international community should make a greater investment in the field of conflict prevention and preventive diplomacy. The United Nations has the mandate to take a leading role in further developing instruments for preventive diplomacy. Austria is, and will continue to be, a loyal Member and a strong supporter of the world Organization. The United Nations — our Organization — is the only global instrument that can provide the necessary response to existing global challenges: eradicating poverty; protecting our planet's environment; combating drugs, organized crime and terrorism; and promoting human rights, including the rights of children. To this end we have to strengthen the United Nations. ﻿May I begin, Sir, by extending to you our warm felicitations on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly. Your long association with the United Nations as Ukraine’s Permanent Representative and your diplomatic skills and accomplishments as your country’s Foreign Minister undoubtedly, if I may say so, make you eminently suited for the task of guiding our deliberations this year. We would like to place on record our deep appreciation for the achievements of your predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia. As President of the General Assembly last year he left an indelible mark in the annals of this institution by giving it bold and vigorous leadership at a time when far-reaching changes in the United Nations system are being undertaken. I also wish to convey our warm greetings, and indeed a very special welcome, to the Secretary-General as he participates in this, his first General Assembly debate since he became the chief executive of our Organization. He has, in a very short time, developed and launched a far-reaching programme of reforms, which is undoubtedly the most comprehensive undertaken in the 52-year history of the Organization. We pledge our fullest cooperation to him in his arduous work. We pledge to make a positive response to his initiative for reform. This year the General Assembly is preoccupied — and very rightly so — with the question of reform. It is no doubt an important question, a question on which all delegations have a view. Indeed, there are many conflicting views on the subject. My Government also has a view, one that it shares with a large number of delegations, especially those of the countries of the Non- Aligned Movement. I will in a moment make my brief observations on the question of reform. But this year I wish to devote my address to the General Assembly, in the main, to a different theme. I wish to place before the delegations here assembled, fairly and squarely, and to plead fervently, a cause to which my Government is deeply committed and for which it has deep concern. It is a cause that deserves the strong support of all Governments and all the peoples of the world. It is a cause that challenges the conscience of mankind. It is a cause that cries out for redress, for immediate, concerted, vigorous action. It is the cause of the innocent, helpless victims of war. More specifically, my theme is the impact of armed conflict on children: a subject that in the experience of Sri Lanka is drenched in 6 blood and tears. I will return to my theme in a moment. But first, the question of reform. Although 1997 is often referred to as the year of reform, we would prefer it to be remembered as the year of renewal and reform. Reform by itself is no substitute for empowering the United Nations. Renewal of the spirit of multilateralism enshrined in the Charter is an essential corollary to the reform exercise launched by the Secretary- General. If reform is to be conceptually sound and capable of effective implementation, it must command in the fullest sense consensus in the General Assembly. Sri Lanka certainly shares the vision of the Secretary- General to make the United Nations a dynamic and cost- effective institution responsive to the challenges of our day and age. We recognize the necessity for reorganizing the Secretariat, the consolidation of United Nations activities into core areas, the creation of a senior management group, and the coordination of United Nations field activities as a manifestation of sound principles of good management. The creation of a United Nations Development Group that would consolidate and coordinate the activities of a variety of bodies is another proposal that merits close attention. We endorse the measures to strengthen the United Nations operational capacity to combat drugs, crime and terrorism by bringing together disparate international efforts under a single dedicated organization. Sri Lanka shares with many other delegations the disappointment that consensus has so far eluded our efforts to expand the Security Council. The General Assembly’s Open-ended Working Group on this issue has been deliberating since 1994 with very little progress accomplished, which is itself evidence of the contentious nature of the question. Sri Lanka was one of the 10 countries that brought the question of equitable representation and increase in the membership of the Security Council to the General Assembly agenda in 1979. Many Member States have consistently demanded that the composition of the Security Council should be broadened and that its working methods should be rendered transparent. The Council cannot remain structurally fossilized and anachronistic in a world of dynamic change. We are pleased to note that the need for change is now being widely recognized. In order to be credible, viable and successful, reform of the Security Council should prudently take into account the interests clearly set forth by the non-aligned nations. We are pleased to note that the United States of America has now agreed that an expanded Security Council should contain three representatives of the developing countries as permanent members. We agree with the Secretary-General’s proposal that there should be a dedicated locus for the United Nations operational activities against crime and terrorism. United Nations action against terrorism can no longer be confined to rhetorical statements and exhortations. We therefore endorse the Secretary- General’s timely proposal to place United Nations action to combat crime and terrorism in an operational mode. There is convincing evidence that civil society and the rule of law are increasingly threatened by transnational networking in illicit arms, terrorism, narcotics, money-laundering and crime. The former Secretary-General rightly described this phenomenon as a “supra-national subversive threat” to peace and stability. The present Secretary-General has correctly focused on the fact that underworld groups and terrorists have mastered the abuse of technology and the globalized information network to propagate their sinister designs. Their misuse and abuse of modern technology have vastly increased the power and influence of these criminal groups, which pose a massive threat to law and order, democratic political institutions and economic activities within and between nations. It should be a priority on the international agenda that effective measures be taken to control, if not eliminate, these pernicious elements. We agree with the recommendation that a redoubling of efforts involving new partnerships among national and international agencies will be needed to achieve this objective. It is to be emphasized that there should be coordination between the merged focal points on crime, drugs and terrorism and the United Nations department handling the flow of small arms and the illicit arms trade. We also hope that the United Nations Ad Hoc Committee on an International Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings, of which Sri Lanka is a Vice-Chairman, will conclude its negotiations and submit a text for adoption at this session. Thereafter, we urge the international community, especially the large and powerful nations, to update their domestic legislation so as to arm themselves with adequate legislative authority to eradicate the fund-raising and other activities which take place on their soil in support of terrorist activities that take place on the soil of other States. Today terrorism is a phenomenon with international ramifications. Only 7 well-organized, well-coordinated international action can combat international terrorism effectively. I turn now to the question of human rights. The delicate and complex process of protecting and promoting human rights, good governance and accountability in an environment of underdevelopment, violence and terrorism is one that should be carefully developed and resolutely moved forward. The Declaration of Human Rights is universal and unalterable. Sri Lanka does not believe that the Declaration should be diluted, modified or ignored. What we believe, and strongly advocate, is that international action to enforce human rights should be fair and even-handed. Human rights should never be used by powerful States to bludgeon and bully weaker States for spurious political reasons. The essence of peace and development is that each human being should be enabled to enjoy “better standards of life in larger freedom”. Undeterred by the extraordinary security problems posed by terrorism and the threats levelled against the democratic traditions and institutions of Sri Lanka, we have been able to make much headway in the promotion and protection of human rights in our country. Sri Lanka is now a party to 13 international human rights instruments. At the risk of exposing itself to tendentious propaganda by terrorist groups, the Government has taken a number of national and international measures on a broad front, to pursue an open policy on human rights in accordance with international norms. We have established a national Human Rights Commission, which is an independent organization with investigative, monitoring and advisory powers. The Commission is now functional and is in touch with regional and international institutions including the United Nations Centre for Human Rights. I am also pleased to mention that I have today, just a short while ago, deposited with the Secretary-General Sri Lanka’s instrument of accession to the Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. This important decision to permit international scrutiny of governmental actions affecting the human rights of our citizens is consistent with our policy of openness on human rights. Sri Lanka warmly welcomes the appointment of Mary Robinson as the new High Commissioner for Human Rights. I had the pleasure of discussing human rights issues with her a few days ago. I am confident that she will bring to her task an open mind and a fair approach; that she will seek and promote informed dialogue, not confrontation; that she will strive to win the trust of developing countries; and that she will not apply double standards nor wield human rights concerns as a weapon against them. We wish her every success as she assumes her important duties. She may rest assured that she will receive from Sri Lanka the fullest cooperation. I have now reached the central theme of my address: the impact of armed conflict on children. Every year the United Nations builds a mountain of paper: according to the British Foreign Secretary, 2,500 tons of paper are produced annually at a cost of $150 million. At this time of year, every year, the General Assembly is engulfed by a flood of words that rises to new heights as the membership of our Organization grows in number. There is much waste, much repetition, much verbiage in our methods of work. But we must always remember that within this pile of papers there are some documents which deserve — which require — the closest attention of the international community. One such document, outstanding for its sweep, its depth and the careful research that went into its preparation is the study on the impact of armed conflict on children compiled by Ms. Graça Machel and her collaborators and submitted to the General Assembly last year under the symbols A/51/306 and A/51/306/Add.1. It is a document so profound in its impact, so searing in the revelations it makes of matters that the world little understands that to ignore it would be a permanent rebuke to the collective conscience of mankind. The study exposes the plight of children as the victims of armed conflict. It covers the agonizing situation of children as refugees, as objects of exploitation and gender-based violence and above all as child soldiers. The study recommends measures for the rehabilitation and reconciliation of children affected by war, for promoting their psychological recovery and social integration, for their education and for dealing with a number of other questions relevant to the problem of mitigating the impact of war on children. The study points out that millions of children are caught up in conflicts in which they are not merely bystanders but targets. Some fall victim to a general onslaught against civilians; others die as part of a calculated genocide. Still other children suffer the effects of sexual violence or the multiple deprivations of armed conflict that expose them to hunger or disease. Just as shocking, thousands of young children are cynically exploited as combatants. In 1995, according to the study, 30 major conflicts raged in different locations around the world. All of them 8 took place within States, between factions split along ethnic, religious or cultural lines. The conflict destroyed crops, places of worship and schools. Nothing was spared, held sacred or protected: not children, not families, not communities. In the past decade, an estimated two million children have been killed in armed conflict. Three times as many have been seriously injured or permanently disabled. Countless others have been forced to witness or even take part in horrifying acts of violence. These statistics are shocking enough, but more chilling, says the study, is the conclusion to be drawn from them: that more and more of the world is being sucked into a desolate moral vacuum. This is a space devoid of the most basic human values; a space in which children are slaughtered, raped and maimed; a space in which children are exploited as soldiers; a space in which children are starved and exposed to extreme brutality. Unregulated terror and violence speak of deliberate victimization. There are few further depths to which humanity could sink. Ms. Machel pleads that whatever the causes of modern-day brutalities towards children, the time has come to call a halt. I make the same plea to the General Assembly today. The study exposes the extent of the problem and proposes many practical ways to pull back from the brink. Its most fundamental demand is that children simply have no part in warfare. The international community must denounce this attack on children for what it is: intolerable and unacceptable. Violent conflict has always made victims of non- combatants. The patterns and characteristics of contemporary armed conflicts, however, have increased the risks for children. The personalization of power and leadership and the manipulation of ethnicity and religion to serve personal or narrow group interests have had similarly debilitating effects on countries in conflict. Armed conflicts across and between communities result in massive levels of destruction: physical, human, moral, cultural. Not only are large numbers of children killed and injured, but countless others grow up deprived of their material and emotional needs, including the structures that give meaning to social and cultural life. The entire fabric of their societies — their homes, schools, health systems and religious institutions — are torn to pieces. The Machel study rightly points out that war violates every right of a child: the right to life, the right to be with family and community, the right to health, the right to the development of the personality and the right to be nurtured and protected. Many of today’s conflicts last the whole length of a childhood, meaning that from birth to early adulthood, many children will experience multiple and cumulative assaults. Against the background I have outlined, I wish to focus sharply on the terrible plight of child soldiers. The Machel study has pointed out that one of the most alarming trends in armed conflict is the participation of children as soldiers. Children serve armies in supporting roles, as cooks, porters, messengers and spies. Increasingly, however, adults are deliberately conscripting children as soldiers. Some commanders have even noted the desirability of using child soldiers in war because they are “ more obedient, do not question orders and are easier to manipulate than adult soldiers'”. [A/51/306, para. 34] A series of 24 case studies on the use of children as soldiers prepared for the Machel study, covering conflicts over the past 30 years, indicates that Government or rebel armies around the world have recruited tens of thousands of children. Many child soldiers are 10 years of age or younger. While the majority are boys, girls also are recruited. The children most likely to become soldiers are those from impoverished and marginalized backgrounds and those who have become separated from their families. In Sri Lanka we know exactly what the Machel study is talking about. We have for almost two decades been in the grip of a war being fought against the State by a group of heavily armed terrorists known as the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), and internationally known as one of the deadliest terrorist organizations the world has ever seen. It is fighting to create a separate State in Sri Lanka by force of arms. Last July the Senate of the United States unanimously concluded that the LTTE is a terrorist organization and requested the State Department to declare it to be so. Last August a Canadian court declared the LTTE to be a terrorist organization and ordered the deportation of its chief fund-raiser in Canada. The LTTE has killed thousands of unarmed civilians and has destroyed public property worth millions of dollars. In January last year it bombed and destroyed the Central Bank of Sri Lanka, killing hundreds of civilians, and in July last year it bombed a rush-hour commuter train full of workers going home, again killing hundreds of civilians. These are but a few of the atrocities the LTTE has committed against civilians in the course of a long campaign of terror. Only a few months ago it killed 9 two of our Members of Parliament, adding to the large tally of politicians and other leaders murdered by the LTTE over the years, including a President of Sri Lanka and a Prime Minister of India. Recently the LTTE attacked international civilian shipping that provides essential services and supplies to the Tamil community in the north of Sri Lanka, the very community on whose behalf it claims to be fighting. The LTTE has conscripted thousands of teenage children to fight its war. Involving children as soldiers has been made easier by the proliferation of inexpensive light weapons. But the LTTE is committing more dastardly and more heinous crimes against Tamil children. It brazenly kidnaps them or lures them to its cause by glorifying and romanticizing war. They are brainwashed into believing in the cult of martyrdom. They swear fanatical allegiance to the leader. The Machel study identified Sri Lanka as one of the countries where children are being lured into “cults of martyrdom” [A/51/306, para. 43] by the “ideological indoctrination” [ibid.] of the LTTE. A book entitled Children, the Invisible Soldiers, released by the Save the Children organization in Stockholm, has condemned the use of children in suicide attacks by the LTTE. The international news agency IPS reported last May that “as adults are killed, up to half the fighters of the LTTE are children, many among them girls”. In another recent study, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Violence against Women has strongly condemned the use of women in war by the LTTE. Many of these children, boys and girls, are no more than 10 years of age. Many of them are transformed into suicide bombers. They wear cyanide capsules around their necks. They are hurled into battle as human bombs. The Machel study itself has observed, with specific reference to Sri Lanka, that “adults have used young people’s immaturity to their own advantage, recruiting and training adolescents for suicide bombings.” [ibid.] A recent press report on fighting in the north of Sri Lanka noted that “young boys barely in their teens are blindfolded and escorted by a woman Tiger cadre to the battlefield, in groups of eight to 10, their blindfolds removed and they are ordered to fire at troops”. In December 1995 the former United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) representative in Sri Lanka said in a press release “The LTTE recruits boys and girls from the age of 10 upwards. Their dependence on child combatants is increasing rapidly.” The Machel study has referred to the role which international organizations, non-governmental organizations, religious groups and civil society in general can play in preventing this diabolical practice. It is indeed a matter of great regret that in my own country, despite the notorious prevalence of the LTTE practice of recruiting children as fighters, these organizations, which are often quite vocal in their pleas for peace and swift to castigate excesses on the part of the armed forces, have remained strangely silent on this issue. By their failure to condemn such acts, they are surely guilty of a grave dereliction of the duty to uphold the moral and spiritual values of a civilized society. By their silence it would appear that they are oblivious to the immense tragedy of a whole generation of young lives being sacrificed to Moloch, while a misguided few applaud the helpless victims as martyrs, and yet others seek to romanticize the so-called liberation of girls who have hitherto been brought up in a long-respected traditional mode, caring nought for the dehumanization that is involved. I strongly urge the international community to take action on the lines suggested in paragraph 62 of the Machel study. These recommendations envisage a global campaign aimed at eradicating the use of children under the age of 18 years in armed conflict and the public exposure of such practices by the media, creating international pressure against those who resort to them. I also urge strict adherence to the Convention on the Rights of the Child by all actors in armed conflicts, and I stress the need for specific measures to demobilize and reintegrate child soldiers into society and the need for early action to conclude the drafting of the optional protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child in regard to the involvement of children in armed conflicts and the prohibition of recruitment of children under the age of 18. We reject the complacent assumption made by some that the involvement of children in armed conflict is inevitable and unavoidable. This is clearly not the case. Their participation is the result of heartless, deliberate and calculated decisions made by ruthless men, regardless of the loss of innocent lives, relentlessly pursuing their 10 megalomaniac ambitions. The leader of the LTTE, while sending to their deaths thousands of young children — the youngest of the young — brings up his own children in comfort and safety, far from the battlefields, far away from the country itself. This barbaric practice of conscripting or luring children for war must be condemned by all civilized States, without any room for equivocation or doubt, and must be eliminated from our world if we are to preserve our humanity. I appeal to the affluent countries in which the LTTE has established offices and raises funds to prosecute its infamous war in Sri Lanka not to tolerate its presence or give it shelter when it engages in the commission of dastardly crimes against children — indeed, the children of its own community. On behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka, I greatly welcome the appointment of a distinguished Ugandan diplomat, Mr. Olara Otunnu, as the Secretary-General’s Special Representative to study the impact of armed conflict on children. His appointment has also been welcomed by Canada. The Canadian Foreign Minister also referred to and condemned the recruitment of children as soldiers. We must give our wholehearted support to Mr. Otunnu. He intends to propose and initiate concrete measures to tackle the problem. He will launch a campaign of public advocacy to bring to the notice of the world the terrible plight of children in war. I appeal to the international community not to allow his work to suffer for lack of funds. As we look back at the half century that has elapsed since the founding of the United Nations, we have, in truth, to acknowledge a sense of satisfaction at what has been achieved, however limited in scope, through our collective decisions and actions during that period. There have been undeniable gains in the spheres of economic and social development, however modest they appear to be when measured against our aspirations and objectives. Yet the fundamental problems of the developing world remain unresolved, while the developed countries have gone from strength to strength. In the sphere of collective security and the maintenance of world peace, although major catastrophes have been averted, the United Nations has not succeeded in making real the dream of every human being to live in peace in a world free from the pestilence of war and all the attendant horrors of human carnage and the senseless destruction of everything we hold dear. Even the end of the cold war has made no great difference to countries such as ours embroiled in internal civil conflicts, all too often nourished by the giant armament manufacturers of the world, while the United Nations endlessly debates disarmament. However deep our sense of disappointment and disenchantment may be, have we any hope apart from the United Nations? I do not think we have. If the United Nations has fallen short of our expectations, it is because we, the Member States, have failed to honour our obligations and fulfil our responsibilities to the world community, selfishly placing our national interests above the common good. If we continue in this fashion the United Nations will cease to be relevant altogether, and history will surely record it as yet another pious venture which we did not have the courage and commitment to make real. As the German Foreign Minister said from this podium a few days ago, “it is on our children, the weakest members of any society ... that the world’s future and hopes depend ... They are little people who need big rights. How much worse off would they be if there were no United Nations? What would become of the world’s conscience? Who would demand consideration for and solidarity with such children if we allowed this Organization to decline?” [See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-Second Session, Plenary Meetings, 9th Meeting] In order to realize the ideals of the founders of this world body, and the hopes and dreams of countless millions of people who look to the United Nations for their realization, we need to renew our faith and trust in the United Nations — not in the old United Nations, which is looked upon with cynicism, even suspicion, but in a United Nations that will, in a sense, be a new creation and a new being. But for the United Nations to be born anew we need to bring about fundamental structural changes in the international order, changes that will give it new life and strength for the coming century. These changes will entail sacrifice; they will be changes which many States will hesitate to welcome and be reluctant to accept lest they endanger their sovereignty and their so-called vital interests. Nevertheless, such change will be in the nature of an uncompromising demand that will confront us all. Nothing worthwhile can be achieved without sacrifice. That is indeed a universal truth concerning human redemption, and the United 11 Nations is, after all, like any other human institution. Its weaknesses and strengths are those of humankind. The obligation to act in the common interest cannot be undertaken selectively; nor does the assumption of this onerous duty admit of any double standard. All the nations of the world, the powerful and the weak, the rich and the poor, must jointly agree to curtail their independence and their claims to act unilaterally. Each must agree to subordinate its individual decision and discretion to a global political will, manifested through truly democratic and representative organs of the United Nations, reflecting the authentic judgement of the world community of States. Apart from, or bereft of, the collective decisions and concerted acts of such a reformed and restructured United Nations, carried into effect resolutely and with determination, I doubt whether we can honestly expect a better future for humankind in the new millennium. We must not fail the United Nations, or else we shall assuredly go down in history as “the hollow men” of the twentieth century. ﻿Mr. President, it is with pride that I congratulate you, a representative of Ukraine, on your election to the international community’s highest political post. I am confident that you will use to the full your rich political experience and internationally recognized diplomatic skills, as well as your profound knowledge of the United Nations system, to which you have devoted more than 20 years of your life, to the benefit of mankind. I wish also to address words of gratitude to representatives of all United Nations Member States for their support of the candidature of the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for the honourable and responsible position of President of the General Assembly at its fifty- second session. We interpret that support as a manifestation of a high level of confidence in Ukraine’s foreign policy, its peaceful initiatives and its commitment to the ideals of the United Nations and to the objective of reviving and strengthening the Organization. We regard it also as recognition of Ukraine’s contribution to the maintenance of international peace and security, to the process of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation, to the promotion of the noble principles of democracy in international life and of respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms. Allow me also to pay a tribute to the President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session, Mr. Razali Ismail, who made a notable contribution to the Organization’s progress along the path of reform. The recent history of the United Nations and the history of the development of independent Ukraine have much in common. The first common feature is that both my State and the United Nations are now experiencing the complicated process of internal reform. Profound, comprehensive change is proving to be an extremely difficult matter. But the choice is final and irreversible: Ukraine has become a democratic State with a policy aimed at ensuring the needs and rights of its citizens, and at establishing a civil society. There is every reason to conclude that during our six years of independence we have laid the foundation of further State-building. As early as next year we will certainly experience gradual economic growth and the forging of a socially oriented market economy in Ukraine. All the conditions now exist for this to become reality, both internal — as illustrated by the political stability in Ukraine — and external. Ukraine has consistently conducted, and is determined to continue, a policy aimed at strengthening security and stability throughout the world. I would recall that last year we removed the last nuclear warhead from our territory, thus transforming a nuclear-weapon State to a non-nuclear-weapon State for the first time in history. Ukraine thus demonstrated its good will, proved that genuine nuclear disarmament is possible, and made a substantive contribution to the achievement of the ideal of a nuclear-weapon-free world in the twenty-first century. No less significant is my country’s contribution to radical positive changes in the Central and Eastern European region, creating favourable conditions for a new, more stable and more secure geopolitical situation throughout the continent. 3 Important steps in that direction included the basic political treaties that Ukraine has signed with the Russian Federation and with Romania, and the agreement with the Republic of Belarus on State borders, the first of the kind to be signed in the history of the newly independent States. The signing by the Presidents of Ukraine and of Poland of the joint statement on reconciliation and unity was of exceptional significance for the improvement of the situation in Central and Eastern Europe. We view that document as exemplifying a balanced and unbiased approach to the evaluation of complex pages of history, and as a deliverance from the burden of the past for the sake of the development of mutually beneficial cooperation now and in the future. The resolution of the problem of the division of the Black Sea fleet has contributed to enhanced security in the Black Sea region and throughout Europe. Among the most recent of important events, I wish to note the signing at Madrid of the Charter on Special Partnership between Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). The establishment of a special partnership with the alliance has tangibly strengthened confidence in Europe and is now one of the important elements in the establishment of a new system of European security. It is generally acknowledged that the future of the European security architecture as an important element of global security should be based on principles of comprehensiveness, indivisibility and partnership, and, in the long run, on collective rather than unilateral action. It is in that context that Ukraine is developing active cooperation with European and transatlantic security structures. An important place in Ukraine’s foreign policy priorities belongs to developing mutually beneficial relations with the countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America. Ukraine is also devoting special attention to the Movement of Non-aligned Countries, which is one of the influential factors in contemporary international relations. Our observer status in that movement testifies to the fact that Ukraine is today a non-bloc country. All of this can be summarized in a single conclusion: thanks to Ukraine’s persistent efforts, its borders are now peaceful and it is open to partnership with neighbouring countries. Our multifaceted foreign policy has promoted the image of Ukraine as a reliable and predictable partner. We have been guided by, and still abide by, the well-known principle: think globally and act locally. I believe that this approach — based, incidentally, on fundamental provisions of the United Nations Charter — will lay the foundation for future relationships among all members of the world community. The events on the European continent since the end of the Cold War have persuasively shown that threats to security on the continent will henceforth emanate not from confrontation between military-political blocs, but rather from regional and local conflicts. A good reminder of this is the series of tragic events of recent years in the Balkans, in the Transdniestr region, in the Caucasus and elsewhere. At the same time, discussions on the future of European security have so far focused mainly on the issues of NATO and European Union enlargement, the role of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and so forth. It is not my intention to minimize the importance of these issues, but we are certain that all- European stability will be unattainable without strengthening regional security and establishing mutually beneficial and good-neighbourly relations between Ukraine and other nations. It is to that end that European countries — especially those of Central and Eastern Europe, among them Ukraine — should exert the best of their efforts. It was for this very reason that we proposed to hold in Ukraine the 1999 summit meeting of the Baltic and Black Sea States. By the will of destiny, we are living at the threshold of a new millennium, which has coincided with a turning point in the development of mankind. The United Nations — a unique instrument for the maintenance and strengthening of international peace and security — should be well prepared for the changes ahead and should be ready to respond to the challenges of today and of the twenty-first century. It is difficult to overestimate the positive changes in the world in which the United Nations has played a key role. It is true that the Organization has not been able completely to cure all social evils. However, it is equally true that the United Nations has always sent a timely signal regarding the emergence of new hazards and has united the world community to address urgent global problems. The substantive outcome of these joint efforts relates in particular to environmental protection in its global 4 dimension: prohibiting chemical and bacteriological weapons and reducing nuclear weapons, as well as formulating a new concept and practice of peacekeeping; ensuring human rights; and codifying international law on non-renewable resources. At the same time, we must admit that the United Nations has not always been able adequately to respond to a number of the problems it has faced. This makes it necessary further to improve its structure and internal organization and to increase the effectiveness of its work. Unfortunately, we must take note of the fact that no institution other than the United Nations so clearly confirms the validity of Parkinson’s law, which states that the expansion of bureaucracy has no limits. For that reason, I believe that today no one has any doubts that changes in the United Nations are urgent and are objectively required. I hope that the current session will make a substantive contribution to this important cause and that we will have all due reason to refer to it as “the session of reforms”. The well-known seventeenth-century Ukrainian philosopher and educator Hryhoriy Skovoroda once said that “You do your best work and save yourself when you firmly embark upon the road of common sense”. This, in our view, is the path that the process of United Nations reform should also take. Ukraine is actively supporting measures aimed at bringing the structure and tasks of the Organization in line with new realities. It is from this perspective that we are now considering a package of proposals by the Secretary-General aimed at a wide-scale reorganization of the United Nations structure and its programme activities. While these proposals may not fully coincide with the interests of some countries or regions, they have been elaborated on the basis of compromise and, in fact, constitute the first real attempt to stop marking time in the process of reforming the Organization. Therefore we have to be pragmatic and attempt to avoid drowning this issue in endless discussions and appeals, as has happened repeatedly in the past. We should begin without delay concrete work on the proposals of the Secretary-General, without dividing the package into separate components. Furthermore, we must keep in mind that the implementation of these proposals, following their final approval and endorsement by the General Assembly, will be only the initial stage in the process of the radical transformation of the United Nations, which will have to embrace its most important components, primarily the Security Council and the budgetary and financial system. In this context, equitable geographical representation in the Security Council and the increase of its membership take on special importance. It would not be a mistake to say that this problem is considered by the majority of Member States as a priority issue and that its resolution, to a great extent, will determine the results and the success of the reform of the Organization. In general, Ukraine shares this point of view. But we also believe that the overall process of the renewal and rebuilding both of the United Nations structure and of its activities should not be held hostage to the solving of one issue, albeit a very important one. The negotiations that took place within the framework of the Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council during the fifty- first session of the General Assembly were, in our opinion, useful and productive. The positions of many Member States have shifted, moving towards achieving compromise. We can realistically expect participants in the negotiations to reach the general accord that is necessary for the adoption of a decision, as required by the relevant resolution of the General Assembly. I should like to call on Member States to exert maximum efforts to reach a consensus decision. The most important thing now is to transcend nationally focused approaches by taking into account the common interests of the international community. Concerning the enlargement of the Security Council, I believe that the solution to the problem should be based on the following general principles. First, all the regional groups, including the Group of Eastern European States, should enlarge their representation in the Security Council; secondly, the enlargement should not negatively affect the efficiency of the work of the Security Council; and thirdly, the process of enlargement should not be given a strict time limit, although a decision on this issue should preferably be taken in the near future. The elaboration and practical implementation of an overall concept of peacekeeping activities is an extremely pressing issue that can be settled only within the framework of the United Nations. Two years ago, at the 5 commemorative meeting of the General Assembly on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization, I proposed gradually to re-orient United Nations peacekeeping activities towards preventive diplomacy. The experience of Blue Helmets operations in hot spots around the globe in recent years has further convinced us of the need to strengthen the preventive component. In this context, we consider the system of United Nations standby agreements to be promising. Ukraine, striving to make a real contribution to the strengthening of this mechanism, recently signed the relevant memorandum of understanding with the United Nations. Improving the efficiency of peacekeeping operations is not an abstract notion for our country. Let us recall that the first Ukrainian peacekeeping unit was deployed five years ago to the United Nations peacekeeping force in the former Yugoslavia. Since then Ukraine has participated in more than 10 United Nations peacekeeping operations. In addition, our military contingent has taken part in the operations of the multinational stabilization force in Bosnia. From this lofty rostrum, I reaffirm Ukraine’s readiness to participate directly in a settlement of the Georgian- Abkhaz conflict, to join the activities of the group of countries known as Friends of the Secretary-General on Georgia, and to dispatch its personnel to the United Nations peacekeeping mission in that country. Ukraine will also continue its efforts to bring about a final settlement of the conflict in the Transdniestr, acting together with Russia and with the participation of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe as a guarantor of the special status of the Transdniestr as an integral part of the Republic of Moldova. The nineteenth special session of the General Assembly held earlier this year, which was devoted to reviewing progress in the implementation of Agenda 21, was a major international event. I know that many countries have assessed its results rather critically since, in their opinion, the session did not fully meet expectations. But it did confirm the adherence of the overwhelming majority of countries to the principles of sustainable development declared in Rio, and it also provided the world community with a number of constructive proposals with regard to a further strengthening of global partnership in the field of environment protection. We must all remember the equal right of present and future generations to a viable living environment. Our shared obligation to them is to join our efforts for the sake of the survival and development of human civilization. That was the essence of Ukraine’s proposal concerning the elaboration in future of an international legal document that would serve as a reliable legal basis for safe and sustainable development worldwide. For Ukraine, environmental problems are not just abstract theory. The Chernobyl nuclear-power plant accident has been a real national tragedy for my country. Every year up to 15 per cent of the State budget is spent on compensating for the losses it has caused and on ensuring social benefits for the people affected. Ukraine made a political commitment to decommission the Chernobyl nuclear power plant by the end of the millennium and has made continuous efforts to fulfil it. We expect other countries to meet their commitments in this regard. At the same time, the problem of Chernobyl cannot be limited to the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant. This accident unleashed a series of problems that are global in nature and could scarcely be overcome alone by even the most developed nations. Chernobyl today is not the exclusive problem of Ukraine. In paying tribute to the United Nations efforts aimed at eliminating the consequences of the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, I wish to emphasize that an overall solution to this global problem is simply impossible without large- scale international assistance. At present, the United Nations is going through a difficult but crucial moment of renewal. The same can be said about Ukraine, which is more than ever before conscious of its dependence on the world order and relies on the support of the international community. That is why the question of what form the world order will assume in the future — to which this session is expected to provide an answer — is of particular and, without exaggeration, fateful importance to us. The future of the world order, of the United Nations and of every country, is our common future. Thus, while deciding today on the fate of the United Nations, we should be aware that we are also determining our own destiny.   ﻿For some time now the United Nations has been engaged in a process of reform and restructuring with the aim of improving its capacity to address the many challenges which the world now faces. It has been an arduous and time-consuming exercise which, if truth be told, has diverted us, to some degree, from our primary task of promoting global peace and development. Yet the exercise is a necessary one if we are in fact to enhance the Organization's efficiency and effectiveness and to gear it for service to the international community in the coming years. My delegation is confident that, under the able leadership of the President, we will be able to make progress in our endeavours. His wide diplomatic experience, together with his intimate knowledge of the 14 Organization, will serve, I am sure, to orient and accelerate our efforts. We congratulate him on his unanimous election and vouchsafe to him our ready cooperation to make this fifty-second session of the General Assembly a significant turning point in the life of the Organization. To the President's distinguished predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia, we convey our deep and sincere appreciation for the determination and dynamism which he brought to bear on the work of the last session. To his great credit, he laboured tirelessly to find general agreement on the steps which must be taken to revitalize the United Nations. His exemplary leadership will no doubt inspire us to fulfil the task at hand without undue delay. I also wish to acknowledge with appreciation the notable contribution which our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, has made to the reform process since taking office. In keeping with the promise made to the Assembly, he has presented us with a set of interesting proposals for the reshaping of the Organization for service in the twenty-first century. This comprehensive and constructive document requires our serious consideration. I intend, therefore, in the time allocated to me, to make a few comments which I trust, despite their brief and preliminary nature, will provide an indication of our thinking at the present time on the ways and means by which the Organization can be reformed. Let me first say that we share the vision which the Secretary-General has set forth for the future role of the United Nations. The Organization has proved its capacity for preventing major wars and forging international consensus on important aspects of international relations. It is now poised to explore the many possibilities of multilateralism. Increasingly, Member States, large and small, are seeing it in their interest to cooperate with the United Nations to maximize their ability to deal with several international concerns. There is increasing recourse to its machinery in order to deal with such issues as development, the environment, disease, drug trafficking and terrorism, to name just a few. Many of the special agencies, such as the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM), and others too numerous to mention, cater to the needs of the most vulnerable sections of our population — the aged, women, children and our indigenous peoples. Built on the pillars of multilateralism, the United Nations offers Member States a unique forum in which they can come together for their common good. Its grand design, elaborated some 50 years ago, remains by and large a useful chart for promoting international comity. It is important, therefore, as we plan for a new era, that we hold fast to the founders' abiding vision lest we be dashed against the rocks of isolation and left to survive as best we can. The effective translation of this vision into reality requires strong and dynamic leadership. History has shown that, much too often, our most worthwhile aspirations have been left unfulfilled because of inadequate political commitment and direction. States often see the world only through the prism of narrow self-interest and are blind to the virtues of concerted action. However, the challenges of our times, when no single nation, however rich and powerful, can hope to be entirely self-reliant, require the highest level of international cooperation. For it is only by unity of purpose that we, the United Nations, can hope to achieve the aspirations so loftily declared in the Charter. We are pleased to note that the Secretary-General, as the Organization's chief administrative officer, has demonstrated vision and leadership in outlining his suggestions for reform. Of particular satisfaction to us is the fact that in setting his priorities for the Organization's future work he has accorded high importance to its development activities. At a time when financial support is weak, it is imperative that appropriate strategies be developed to eradicate world poverty and restore economic and social prosperity, particularly in small developing countries. We therefore welcome the Secretary-General's intention to strengthen management capability within the Secretariat to provide for full coordination of effort and for forward planning. We recognize the need for economy, but hope that this will not be to the detriment of clear mandates of Member States and to the fundamental nature of the Organization. It would be a grave pity if, in reducing costs, the United Nations were to be starved of substance. We certainly approve of the idea initially propounded by the Government of Japan, and subsequently endorsed by the G-7 countries, calling for administrative savings to be channelled into development activities. This dividend, although 15 presumably limited in quantity, may be significant enough to serve as a catalyst for financing the development account that the Secretary-General proposes. Like the rest of the world, we welcome the generous gift of the Chairman of Turner Communications, who had participated in the 1994 World Hearings on Development and has now seen fit to come out in support of this cause. One can only hope that such philanthropy will be emulated by others in the private sector. The recently concluded Agenda for Development, together with the joint strategy for development of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and the Development Assistance Committee (DAC), provides a basis for moving forward in the field of economic and social cooperation. Both documents accept the fact that while private investment flows have an important role to play in development, they are, because of their high selectivity and general unpredictability, insufficient to guarantee the development of small disadvantaged countries. For those countries — and here I include my own — development assistance, debt relief, capacity building and increased trade will remain crucial to our progress. At the macroeconomic level, we will continue to look to the United Nations to play a more central role in the concertation of development policies. The Secretary- General has said, “The promotion of economic and social progress is one of the United Nations primary objectives, enshrined in the Charter.” (A/51/950, para. 68) It cannot, consequently, be marginalized in the development process. Instead, it must be its principal generator. Accordingly, both its structure and operation must be such as to provide “a more integrated collaborative approach”. (ibid., para. 72) Greater coordination of development activities, both at Headquarters and at the regional and local levels, is essential. As has been suggested, the creation of a new development group and a United Nations development-assistance framework could possibly provide the necessary focus and direction. We should be careful to ensure, however, that the strengths of individual actors and agencies are not lost in any merger. We fully support the proposal for a closer and more cooperative relationship with the World Bank and other international financial institutions. Over time, those bodies, although connected with the United Nations, have moved away from their original mandates and developed quite independently of the Organization. It is time that those bodies concentrate on human development as distinct from the means of development. We should therefore seek to bring them into line with the main organs of the United Nations. To that end, we encourage the Secretary-General to take whatever steps are needed to achieve that harmonization of the development efforts. We will also have to consider at some stage how to strengthen the relationship of the World Trade Organization (WTO) with the United Nations. At the same time, we must complement these efforts by giving to the Assembly and the Economic and Social Council the direct and overarching responsibility for leading the development enterprise. In the past, those organs have been sadly left behind in the development process. Although useful as forums for dialogue and consensus building, they have failed to engage the key players. We should therefore strive to transform them so that they can provide a stronger political impetus for development and ensure effective global macroeconomic management. We hope that from this debate will come a clear indication of proposals and recommendations that are considered desirable and feasible. There will be some, of course, which, like the conversion of the Trusteeship Council into a forum for dealing with issues such as the global commons, will require further study. These proposals may be explored in informal working sessions of the Assembly and then taken up formally as a package for approval and subsequent implementation. With diligent cooperation on the part of all, there is no reason why such reforms cannot be agreed upon early in the new year. Institutional tinkering alone, however, will not guarantee development. The most important dynamic remains the political will of States. The several strategies that we have forged and the many declarations we have issued over the years remain largely unfulfilled. It is no wonder that poverty is today the single most important threat to global peace and security. 16 The reduction and eventual elimination of world poverty is an imperative which the United Nations cannot ignore. At the special mid-term review of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED), held in June of this year, we came close to agreeing to achieve this target by the year 2015. This year, at the Kyoto session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and later, at the mid-term review of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, we will have other opportunities for the further promotion of sustainable development. We should not fail to take advantage of these in our continuing efforts to create a partnership for the benefit of all States. For its part, my Government remains dedicated to this end. In demonstration of our seriousness of purpose, we have honoured the obligations that have been deemed necessary to national development. As suggested by the World Bank in its publication entitled Partnership for Sustainable Growth, we have sought to promote “global governance in all its aspects, including ensuring the rule of law, improving efficiency and accountability of the public sector and tackling corruption as essential elements of a framework within which economies can prosper.” We have created a truly democratic society in which development is a fundamental human right. The fruit of our policies has been a constant annual growth rate of over 6 per cent. Today, all sectors of our society, including private enterprise and peoples' organizations, are fully involved in the development process and are fired by the optimistic confidence that, as a nation, we will overcome the problems that currently beset us. In a few weeks, our nation will conduct another democratic election, open again to the scrutiny of international observers. Out of this exercise will come a fresh popular determination to continue along the path leading to economic and social progress. To facilitate this pursuit, the Government has prepared a national development strategy based on a fully participatory economy. Involved in its preparation were experts from both the public and the private sectors, who have prepared a draft text for wider public consultation and approval. In our view, this provides a useful policy framework which, by establishing needs and priorities, can serve to mobilize assistance from the international community, including donor Governments and international development agencies. However, as was clearly recognized by our late President, Mr. Cheddi Jagan, the hopes and aspirations of developing countries such as ours will not fully materialize over the long term until the international environment is made more congenial to our needs. Accordingly, he continuously advocated in his lifetime the creation of a new global human order premised on sustainable economic development, equity and social and ecological justice, and based on the creation of a separate global development fund for assistance to both the North and the South. This new North-South partnership must be fashioned in a search for more positive and innovative ways to cope with the vagaries of globalization and liberalization, which are marginalizing millions of people and even many nations. Guyana has openly embraced the 20/20 initiative adopted at the World Summit for Social Development as a means of sparking international cooperation for development. In addition, we have called for agreement on some forms of international taxation, which, like national revenue at the country level, would provide the funding necessary to promote global development. Thus far, some developed countries have been reluctant to contemplate such innovative means of resource mobilization. But in circumstances of ever increasing international obligations and decreasing development assistance, where will the necessary financing come from? The answer to this question is key to the future of the United Nations, for unless the Organization is endowed with predictable and adequate resources, it will be incapable of satisfying the many requirements placed upon it by Member States. In my delegation's view, the time has come to deal with this issue. The Economic and Social Council has broached the question in recent high-level discussions, but we are a long way from testing the feasibility of the many ideas that have been advanced to find new and additional ways of financing multilateralism. Initial studies done by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and other development agencies have revealed that some of the mechanisms proposed are indeed feasible. Why, then, are some States unwilling to entertain any meaningful discussion of their introduction? Is it that they are afraid of losing control of the United Nations? Or are they not serious 17 about their proclaimed adherence to the concept of the interdependence of States? Assuring the financial stability of this Organization must be seen as essential not only to development but to peace. Invariably, instability and conflict within and among States are due in great measure to economic and social instability leading to intense competition for limited resources. An investment in development must therefore be seen as an investment in preventive diplomacy and in the building of peace. Admittedly, these are costly tasks, but there can be no doubt that the expenditure involved is much less than that resulting from conflict. The international community should therefore be prepared to adequately fund activities in this field to enhance the prospects of their success. Apart from financial support, there is also a need for more competent supervision by the Security Council. No reform of the United Nations will be complete without reform of the Council, which is the organ primarily responsible for the maintenance of international peace and security. Unfortunately, despite the most intensive search, we are yet to find general agreement on the basis for restructuring that important body. We must persevere, however, in the fulfilment of our mandate to devise a more effective, open and representative Council fully capable of performing the functions assigned to it under the Charter. Guyana, as a member of the Non-Aligned Movement, believes that this aim can best be served by an appropriate expansion in the non-permanent category. However, in a spirit of compromise, we are prepared to contemplate enlargement also in the permanent category, providing a balance can be found between developed- and developing-country representation and agreement reached on the limitation of the use of the veto and on the concept of periodic review. We are ready to continue our work in this direction until a solution is found. Meanwhile, we are happy to see the progress being made towards the creation of an international criminal court, which will be able to deal effectively with several crimes against humanity. Last, but by no means least, we wish to see in the campaign for peace more active interest and participation by this Assembly in the disarmament process, so that the weapons of war may be converted into tools of development. Although we have yet to see any significant peace dividend from the ending of the cold war, we believe that a reduction in arms expenditures on both nuclear and conventional weapons can only benefit the welfare of all peoples. The Assembly must therefore encourage the Committee on Disarmament to intensify its efforts in this field and must itself take whatever action it deems necessary to prompt the conversion from arms production to more peaceful pursuits. Disarmament is too important an issue to be left to the major military Powers. The international community as a whole must therefore exert continuing pressure on the process to achieve the desired results. At the same time, we must intensify the Organization's role in bringing peace to those countries and regions of the world where conflict or the threat of conflict persists. Upheavals in the Great Lakes region of Africa and the tenuous situation in places such as Afghanistan and Bosnia and Herzegovina still defy resolution. In the Middle East, the peace process seems to have atrophied. The Palestinian problem and the Arab- Israeli conflict continue to hamper the progress of that entire area. In Cyprus, where tensions are restrained only by the continued presence of United Nations troops, the danger of violence is ever present. On the Korean Peninsula, peaceful reunification is still an elusive goal. The international community has no choice but to do whatever it can to help the parties involved in conflict everywhere to work peacefully towards an amicable settlement of their particular disputes. The world wants peace and development. It also wants the United Nations to help in the achievement of these goals. Governments have a duty to heed these sentiments and to increase their support of the Organization. The United Nations itself must in turn reach out to benefit from the valuable reservoir of goodwill which exists towards it among the peoples of the world. Public information is key to securing widespread support for its activities and to expanding its role in international affairs. We therefore urge that the dissemination capacity of the Department of Public Information be enhanced in developed countries, where awareness of the Organization's potential is less than it should be. 18 As we approach the major milestone marking the start of the third millennium, we must have a clear vision of what we want the United Nations to be and of what we want it to do. Only with such clarity can we be sure that the reform process will result in a change for the better. It is therefore my delegation's hope that this general debate will engender a common sense of purpose among its Members and a willingness on their part to press forward in the revitalization of an Organization which is so necessary to both our survival and our development.  ﻿Let me congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the fifty- second session of the General Assembly. I also thank our outgoing President, Mr. Razali Ismail, for his untiring efforts. He catalysed a change in our approach to Security Council reform and set a new trajectory for it. For several years, we have all recognized the imperative of United Nations reform. Today, the issue of the moment is still reform. This summer, the Secretary- General challenged us with a package of reforms that he accurately described as the most extensive and far- reaching in the 52-year history of this Organization. This is, of course, not the first time a Secretary-General has attempted to remake this Organization. But now that the more extravagant of post-cold-war hopes for the United Nations have faded, I believe that this package represents a more focused, realistic and practical approach. We congratulate the Secretary-General for his initiative. The Secretary-General's objective clearly is to enable the United Nations to do better what we all require it to do. We all take the United Nations importance as axiomatic. Therefore, his intention to reconfigure the United Nations management and strengthen the United Nations ability to perform its core functions should be generally acceptable to the majority, even if every particular element of his proposals has not been fully elaborated or may not be entirely to everyone's taste. In the larger interests of this Organization, we should all welcome the thrust of the Secretary-General's proposals and not take issue with too many details. Singapore adopts such an approach. We have, for example, questions about some specific details of his proposals to place the United Nations finances on a sounder footing and to streamline its operations. But we have nonetheless contributed actively to the effort to streamline budgetary and administrative procedures in the Secretariat and will continue to do so. By taking a pragmatic and eclectic approach, we hope to help move the reform process forward, even if we may have questions on specific aspects. We will continue to work with the Secretary-General and other Member States to make the United Nations a more efficient and effective Organization — one that will serve the interests of all its Members, big and small, developing as well as industrialized. The Secretary-General's proposals on the United Nations management, administration and structure have sometimes been directly or indirectly linked to the ongoing effort by Member States to prepare the United Nations political leadership for the twenty-first century through Security Council reform. We are not confident that this is the correct approach. We have been engaged in this broader effort for almost four years. It is a fact that the process has been difficult. Progress has been slow. We have reached the conclusion that the prospects for further progress are not good. 9 We have arrived at this conclusion with great reluctance and without rancour. Progress has not been slow because of the ill will of one State or another. Prospects for further progress are dim not merely because one country or another has lacked the will to cut through the web of vested interests. The reasons are more fundamental. They go beyond the volitions and intentions of individual countries and are embedded in the nature and inescapable realities of international organization in an international system that is still largely defined by relations between sovereign States. No great Power, or even a Power with aspirations to greatness, has ever been willing to submit its own vital interests to United Nations jurisdiction. This fact of international life underlies the current reform stalemate. The necessity of United Nations reform may be widely accepted. But what the great Powers want is not a strong United Nations per se. They want a United Nations just strong and credible enough to serve as an effective instrument of their will and policies. It is only small countries that are more inclined to take the United Nations on its own terms and in its own right. Small countries are not necessarily more virtuous — we merely have fewer options. This reality has been underscored by our discussions on Security Council reform. The really crucial decisions that will allow Security Council reform to move decisively forward or stall it indefinitely are going to be taken in Washington, London, Paris, Beijing or Moscow. It has not been clear that the current permanent members really want change except on their own terms and in circumstances that will not erode their current status and prerogatives. Critical ambiguities in their positions have held up progress and will continue to do so unless clarified. One school of thought is that we should decide on Security Council reform during this General Assembly. I can well sympathize with the frustrations of those who feel that the current debate is going nowhere. But precisely because this is so, we need to ask: What is it that we are going to decide upon? The answer is far from clear. Indeed, the entire Security Council reform process is in danger of being lost in a wilderness of logical contradictions and ambiguities. Please permit me to spell out some of these contradictions and ambiguities. Several permanent members have been categoric only in their desire to see Japan and Germany as new permanent members. Many other countries, including my own, would agree that, when general agreement is reached on the expansion of the Security Council, Japan and Germany should be new permanent members. But an equally large number of countries, and I believe Japan and Germany are among them, would also agree that any general agreement on expansion must include some developing countries as new permanent members to reflect new international realities. On this point most permanent members have been far less clear. When challenged, several of them have recently for the first time conceded that in addition to Japan and Germany they would in principle be willing to accept three permanent seats for developing nations from the regions of Africa, Asia and Latin America. This is welcome progress. Nevertheless, important ambiguities still remain. How will the three developing countries be chosen? It has been suggested that individual countries be chosen by a two-thirds vote of the membership as a whole. It has also been suggested that they could be subject to some system of rotation within the regions. Both, however, are problematic concepts. Can a country really legitimately represent a region if it is chosen outside the region? Will the two-thirds membership prescribed by the Charter really be sufficiently familiar with conditions outside their own respective regions to make an informed and legitimate choice, binding on regions of which they are not members? Then, conceptually, is it not inherently contradictory for a member to be said to be permanent but nonetheless be subject to rotation? Who will such a member represent: its own national interests or the region's interests? Can it really represent the latter? Indeed, what is the regional interest? How will it be determined? Is the regional interest necessarily synonymous with the interests of the larger members of a region? Can a rotational system work for any region except Africa, where it is already an established principle? None of these questions will be easy to answer. They have been debated for the last three years without satisfactory answers. But unless there are clear answers, my concern is that suggestions for a differentiated selection process for permanent members from among the newly industrialized and newly developing countries will only lead to permanent stress, divisions and conflict for most regions, or it will lead to a two-stage decision- making process where the elevation of Germany and Japan will not for many years, if ever, be matched by any degree of consensus for the developing nations of Asia, 10 Africa and Latin America. Such a discriminatory situation would be clearly unacceptable to a majority of Member States, including many of those that aspire to permanent status. But even if we could simultaneously reach agreement on the identity of the three permanent members from among the developing countries, together with Japan and Germany, there are further complexities of equal importance. What will be the status of the new permanent members? Even those current permanent members that have strongly supported Germany's and Japan's aspirations have been silent on whether Germany and Japan should have the veto. Even treaty allies of Japan and Germany, countries that have pledged to go to war at their side and for them, have taken no position on this crucial question. This, in our view, makes it even more difficult to believe that any developed country permanent member would ever allow any developing country to acquire the veto, even though they have made it clear that they want to retain unrestricted use of the veto for themselves. The powers of new permanent members are not questions that can be deferred to a later date merely to make it easier to quickly determine the identity of the new permanent members. They are intrinsic to the very notion and definition of permanent membership. Is a new permanent member really a permanent member if it does not have the same powers as the original five permanent members? Article 27 has been controversial from the very founding of the United Nations. There is now a wide consensus that the use of the veto should be curtailed with a view to its eventual abolition. The reality, of course, is that this is not going to happen any time soon. Any attempt to curtail the veto will be vetoed. Undemocratic though it may be, the veto will be with us for the foreseeable future. And it is not without a certain utility in so far as it helps prevent conflicts among the major Powers which could undermine the United Nations. It has been argued that the veto acts as a fail-safe mechanism. The veto will prevent those countries that are so essential to the maintenance of peace and security and to the operation of the United Nations that they deserve permanent status from being compelled to take any action that would lead to conflicts among themselves. Now, if this justification for the retention of the veto by the original five permanent members has any validity, then the question that arises is whether any new permanent member that is not given the veto is really deserving of that status? Would such countries really enjoy the international stature and the capability and clout to make such a crucial contribution to international peace and security as to warrant being given permanent status? And if not, why give them permanent status? Could they not make financial and other contributions to the United Nations in some other, way as many countries with no such aspirations already do? If there is a need for new permanent members, and I believe there is a need, then the veto is not a question that can be postponed or discussed separately from the issue of their identities. Three out of the five current permanent members have also been adamantly opposed to the expansion of the Security Council beyond a total of 20 or 21 members. This effectively blocks any expansion of the Security Council. Let us suppose that agreement is reached on the identity of the five new permanent members: Japan and Germany and three from the developing countries, whichever they may be. But if the current permanent members that argue against an expansion of the Security Council beyond 21 members remain firm in their position, this would mean only one additional non-permanent seat for the 165 remaining members of the United Nations, all of which have a desire and a right to serve the United Nations on the Security Council at least occasionally. This inequitable arrangement would certainly be rejected by the majority. Moreover, creating five new permanent members in a Security Council of 21 will seriously upset the present balance between permanent seats and non- permanent seats. This is also a situation which will not be acceptable to the majority of the Member States. It will certainly not command the support of the two thirds of the membership required by the Charter to effect any change to the Security Council's present composition. Those that have argued for an expansion of the Security Council to no more than 21 members have done so on the grounds that this is the maximum number that can function effectively and efficiently. These are concerns that we should all share. Nobody wants an ineffective or inefficient Security Council. But no one has yet made a convincing argument that a Security Council of, say, 26 members, as has been proposed by the Non- Aligned Movement, would be any less efficient or effective than a Security Council of 21. This is of course assuming that effectiveness and efficiency are not narrowly defined as merely making it more difficult for 11 any of the current permanent members and their allies to ensure that nobody can prevent them from having their own way. In any case, can we really decide on the effectiveness and efficiency of an expanded Security Council before we know what the powers of the new permanent members are going to be? This leads us into a tautological situation. We cannot know how an expanded Security Council consisting of an expanded number of permanent members will operate because, as I argued a moment ago, the definition of what constitutes a new permanent member cannot be separated from the question of the veto. And the current permanent members have refused to pronounce on this. At this point, effectiveness and efficiency as an argument against a Security Council of more than 21 breaks down completely. I could go on with my analysis. But I hope I have demonstrated that several critical aspects of the positions of the major countries on Security Council reform need further clarification before progress can be made. I do not believe that the ambiguities and contradictions are going to be resolved soon. They are the natural consequence of sovereign States pursuing their national interests. The position of permanent members will have a decisive influence on whether or not Security Council reform moves forward. As things presently stand, it seems clear that what will not evoke a veto from any of the current permanent members will not command the support of the two-thirds membership required to make the necessary Charter changes. At the same time, what would attract the support of the vast majority of United Nations Members is more likely than not to provoke a veto. This is where, like it or not, we currently stand. A similar case could be made on the closely related question of financial reform. This too, has its own deep complexities; its own intrinsic contradictions between what would be acceptable to the majority and what the major Powers want. Not every change is necessarily for the better. We should therefore make progress cautiously, especially on such fundamental questions. This is why the Non- Aligned Movement has wisely decided that efforts at restructuring the Security Council should not be subject to any imposed time-frame. Of course, there has been an evolution in the positions of the major Powers over the last four years. There will be further positive changes over time. But it will certainly take time. No country readily changes the status quo if it benefits from the status quo. My point is therefore that, given this reality, it would be a historic mistake to artificially link the Secretary-General's managerial, administrative and structural reforms to far more contentious questions of Security Council or other matters that would require the support of the two-thirds membership needed to effect Charter amendments as defined in Article 108. There is no need to handicap ourselves in this way. Not all aspects of the Secretary-General's proposals are equally acceptable to all Members. But, taken as a whole, it will be far easier to reach a general agreement on more aspects of the Secretary-General's proposals if they are considered in themselves and not linked to more politicized and therefore more intractable questions. This is not to say that Security Council or financial reforms are unimportant. Of course, they are important. We should continue to work on them. The issues I have raised are complex. But there is no avoiding them. I remain confident that with patience and sincerity we will eventually find our way out of the thickets of ambiguity into which we have wandered. I am confident that we will eventually succeed in our common endeavour to enhance the ability of the Security Council to exercise leadership in the management of global affairs and enhance its legitimacy to do so. But this is only one facet of United Nations reform. The Security Council is not necessarily the only United Nations body that is important, nor even always the most important. The Security Council is empowered to act on behalf of the membership as a whole on questions of international peace and security. It has no direct mandate to act on behalf of the membership as a whole on many other urgent international questions. International peace and security are no longer the only definition of high international politics. Development and the environment are two areas that are obvious and of increasing importance. Such issues in which the Security Council is not the lead United Nations body have risen in prominence on the post-cold-war international agenda. They will remain high priorities for the majority. There can be no legitimate leadership role for the United Nations that does not deal with such issues. Herein lies the critical importance of the Secretary- General's proposals. They can make an immediate and tangible difference to issues affecting the entire international community which are beyond the scope of the Security Council. Action on the Secretary-General's proposals, therefore, should not have to await general agreement on Security Council reform. By focusing on 12 his proposals, by subjecting them to a thorough and positive discussion, I believe we can move urgently needed United Nations reforms forward at a faster pace than has hitherto characterized the reform process. And we can still remain seized of, but not hostage to, issues that may take more time to command general agreement or that require Charter amendment.   ﻿It gives me great pleasure to offer Foreign Minister Hennadiy Udovenko of Ukraine the felicitations of my delegation on his assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session. I am confident that, under his experienced leadership, we will achieve substantive progress in our work. I should also like to pay tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Razali Ismail, for the skilful manner in which he guided our deliberations during an extraordinarily busy year. His purposeful and decisive stewardship secured the success of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. I join other members in commending our Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his report “Renewing the United Nations: A Programme for Reform”. His initiative deserves our praise and the recommendations in the report merit our serious consideration. Since we met last year, world developments have continued to show a mixture of bright promise, new 7 challenges and pervasive uncertainty. The post-cold-war era has opened up new possibilities for the solution of persistent problems and conflicts and the pursuit of a global agenda for peace and development. In various parts of the world, protagonists have shown a desire to resolve their differences through dialogue and negotiations. Globalization has raised the hopes of mankind for equitably shared prosperity. Yet, intra-State conflicts continue to rage in many parts of the world even as the international community faces a multitude of new and unpredictable threats and challenges. Despite significant strides in limiting armaments, the destructive power of nuclear weapons continues to pose a threat to all life on Earth. Poverty and backwardness hold dominion over vast areas of the developing world, while the developing countries are increasingly marginalized in international economic decision-making. We cannot hope to rid the world of these systemic problems unless we can devise an effective system of global governance capable of managing the impact of globalization and interdependence, fulfilling the interlinked demands of peace, security and development, and reconciling the competing interests of a constantly widening range of actors in international affairs. For that system of global governance to be effective and universally accepted, it must have for its central mechanism and source of legitimacy a United Nations revitalized through a process of judicious reform and democratization. My delegation has therefore welcomed the United Nations reform package that the Secretary-General presented to the General Assembly last July. We support the endeavour to transform the leadership and management structure of the Organization so that it can address the challenges of the new millennium with a greater sense of purpose, effectiveness and efficiency. We commend the proposal to promote sustained and sustainable development through, inter alia, the creation of a “development dividend” by shifting resources to development activities, especially those for poverty alleviation. We attach great importance to the proposed measure to overcome the financial crisis of the Organization through the creation of a revolving credit fund pending the attainment of a permanent solution to the crisis. Just as crucial is the idea of enhancing the effectiveness of the United Nations in disarmament activities by establishing a new department for disarmament and arms regulation, to be headed by an Under-Secretary-General. That new department, however, should squarely address the question of nuclear disarmament as a priority issue and not only the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. We also welcome the efforts to improve the Organization's ability to deploy peacekeeping and other field operations more rapidly, enhance the United Nations capacity for post-conflict peace-building, strengthen international efforts to combat drugs, crime and terrorism, and bolster international response to global humanitarian needs. The reorganization and restructuring of the human rights secretariat is also timely and appropriate. However, the idea of extending human rights activities by integrating them into all United Nations activities and programmes entails careful study. Hence, Indonesia stands ready to participate constructively in the detailed discussions on the proposed reform package which will take place during this Assembly. Of equally vital concern is the question of the reform and expansion of the Security Council so as to reflect the realities of today and to accommodate the basic interests of the developing countries which comprise the overwhelming majority in the Organization. On the expansion of membership of the Council, our view is well known: that new permanent members should be chosen not only on the basis of equitable geographic representation, but also on the basis of a set of criteria such as political, economic and demographic weight; their capability and their track record of contributing to the promotion of peace both regionally and globally; and their commitment to assume responsibilities inherent to permanent membership. And we should first discuss and agree on this set of criteria before we determine who represents which region or which group of Member countries. We should not put the cart before the horse. In this regard, predetermined numerical limitations would unduly restrict and possibly distort the representative value of the expansion of the Security Council. The African Member countries have indicated that they would like to have two permanent seats representing their region. By the same token, we believe that it is legitimate that the new composition of the Security Council should have two new permanent members from among the developing countries of the Asian continent. As emphasized by the Ministerial Conference of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, held last April in New Delhi, there should be no partial or selective 8 expansion of the membership of the Security Council to the detriment of the developing countries, and efforts to restructure the Council should not be subject to any imposed time-frame, for although the issue is urgent it should not be decided before there is general agreement. The Foreign Ministers of the Non-Aligned Movement also stressed that the use of the veto should be curtailed with a view to its eventual elimination, and that the improvement of the working methods of the Council should be given equal importance. While we are deeply engaged in this process of reform we must not lose sight of the fundamental goals that impelled us to undertake it in the first place: to enhance the Organization's ability to foster development and to address the root causes of poverty and conflict. Reform should not become a euphemism for budget slashing or an excuse for certain Member States to renege on their financial obligations to the Organization. When reforms are in place, they could indeed ensure optimum use of resources and generate savings. But they could become meaningless if, due to insolvency, the United Nations were rendered incapable of fulfilling its mission. Much of the insecurity in the world today stems from the fact that the international community has not been able to abolish nuclear armaments. The Non-Proliferation Treaty has been indefinitely extended, but without any guarantee that the commitment to nuclear disarmament will be honoured. We are also dismayed that the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty does not effectively prohibit nuclear testing in all environments and for all time, without loopholes or exceptions. Nevertheless, we signed the Treaty in the hope that the nuclear Powers on their own would refrain from testing through simulation. That hope has been shattered by the sub-critical tests announced recently by a nuclear-weapon State. Although these sub-critical tests do not legally violate the CTBT, they make a travesty of the spirit of the Treaty. The nuclear Powers should desist from conducting such tests, as they could lead to the resumption of the nuclear arms race and its attendant risk of global disaster. Meanwhile, in South-East Asia, the South-East Asia Nuclear- Weapon-Free Zone Treaty came into force earlier this year. We hope that the nuclear-weapon States will also contribute to regional security by their timely accession to the relevant Protocol of the Treaty. In the Middle East we are witnessing a continuing escalation in Israeli provocative acts. Israel's encroachments on East Jerusalem, especially in Jabal Abu Ghneim, have plunged the peace process into deeper crisis and triggered unrest and tension on the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. Israel persists in its illegal construction activities, in blockading Palestinian territory and besieging Palestinian cities and towns and in withholding funds belonging to the Palestinian Authority. The imposition of a harsh regimen of collective punishment contravenes all international legal norms and principles and violates the fundamental rights of the Palestinian people. We must therefore vigorously support all efforts to restore the momentum of the peace process and to bring about the resumption of negotiations based on the provisions of the Declaration of Principles and the principle of land for peace. And we must continue to press for progress on the Syrian-Israeli and Lebanese- Israeli tracks of the peace process, for without such progress a comprehensive settlement of the Middle East question is not possible. In Cambodia, the recent regrettable turn of events, which resulted in a significant change in the governmental set-up and political situation has threatened to plunge the country back into factional strife and instability. The interests of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) and Cambodia are inextricably linked, and the stability of Cambodia is essential to the stability of the South-East Asian region. Therefore, while ASEAN reaffirms its commitment to the principle of non- interference in the internal affairs of other States, it stands ready to contribute its efforts to help restore political stability in Cambodia. Accordingly, ASEAN has proposed the immediate cessation of all armed hostilities and acts of violence throughout Cambodia and called on the conflicting parties to resolve their differences amicably. Indonesia believes that a principled solution can only be reached through dialogue, with the aim of preserving the coalition Government that reflects the power-sharing arrangements resulting from the elections of 1993, held under the auspices of the United Nations. Furthermore, free and fair elections should be held as scheduled next May, with the participation of all Cambodian parties and political forces as an important element of its success. Indonesia welcomes the convening of the four-party talks among the Republic of Korea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the United States and the People's Republic of China. We believe that a positive outcome to these talks will pave the way for the establishment of a permanent peace mechanism and that 9 the Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization (KEDO) will facilitate endeavours towards a lasting solution to the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula. In Bosnia and Herzegovina the implementation of the Peace Agreement has entered a critical phase. Key provisions of the Agreement remain unimplemented. Refugees and displaced persons continue to be denied their right to return to their pre-war homes. Freedom of movement has not been restored fully, and discrimination and harassment are still prevalent. Challenges remain in the functioning of the common State institutions that are so vital to unity and reconciliation. The unravelling of the Peace Accord would have devastating consequences for Bosnia and Herzegovina and its neighbours. All concerned should therefore join ranks and work together to ensure the irreversibility of the peace process and the full implementation of the Peace Accords. It is encouraging to note from the World Economic and Social Survey and other authoritative sources that the global economy is basically healthy, that growth rates have risen for the third consecutive year and that such progress has been more widespread than before. However, we have no illusions that the global economy has fully recovered from a protracted period of decline during the past decade. The echoes of the recession in the 1980s are still reverberating. Millions in the developing world are still languishing in wrenching poverty. And this new growth has had little impact on rates of unemployment and under- employment. In fact, it would take another 10 years of similar growth just to recover the gross domestic product per capita levels of the early 1980s. Globalization has indeed brought about an unprecedented surge in international trade, investments and information flows, but it has also accentuated the inequities and imbalances of international economic relations. Only the developed economies have fully benefited from it. The developing countries as a whole continue to suffer its negative impact while being marginalized from international economic decision-making processes in which they could otherwise seek redress from the inequities weighing down their development efforts. Even developing economies that have attained some measure of dynamism are not immune to the perils of globalization and liberalization. Given the sharp fluctuations of international financial flows and currency manipulation by speculators, economies built through years of patient, sound and solid fiscal and monetary policies could be crushed overnight in the anarchy of the globalized market place. Globalization should, therefore, be managed so as to soften its impact on vulnerable economies. Indonesia welcomes the adoption by the General Assembly of An Agenda for Development, a major initiative designed to restore the theme of development to the centre of the operations of the United Nations. The Agenda provides a comprehensive framework of principles and measures designed to promote development as a vital preoccupation of the international community. It also seeks to restore the centrality of the United Nations in the pursuit of international cooperation for development. Perhaps the greatest constraint to development today is the dearth of financial resources for development. While there is an increased emphasis on foreign direct investment, and this is welcome, the fact remains that official development assistance constitutes the principal source of development financing for the majority of the developing countries. Regrettably, official development assistance is in sharp decline, and has today reached its lowest level since target levels were adopted in 1970. Because many developing countries are unable to attract adequate volumes of foreign direct investment, the constriction of official development assistance has taken an enormous toll on their social and economic development, particularly in their efforts aimed at reducing hunger, illiteracy and child mortality. We therefore support the proposal in the reform package submitted by the Secretary-General for the creation of an Office of Development Financing that will pursue this endeavour full-time in tandem with the proposed “development dividend”. The problem of chronic external indebtedness constitutes another debilitating impediment to development. Despite various debt relief initiatives in the past, many developing countries remain crippled by their debt overhangs. My country has always advocated a once- and-for-all approach that entails a reduction of indebtedness to a level that will allow resumption of development. We therefore support the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank, as it would help some of the poorest countries escape the vicious cycle of indebtedness and deprivation and once again take the road to development. In this context, Indonesia has pledged, as a concrete expression of this support, $10 million to the World Bank's Trust Fund for the debt relief of the heavily indebted poor countries. We also urge that these 10 initiatives be implemented expeditiously and with flexibility, and that they cover other heavily indebted countries that are also in dire need of development. In this era of trade liberalization, and in spite of the presence of the World Trade Organization (WTO), the developing countries are finding their comparative advantage rendered meaningless by an array of non-tariff barriers, preference-erosion and the misuse of anti-dumping measures and countervailing duties. Moreover, the persistent attempts of developed countries to link international trade issues with extraneous issues, such as labour standards, amount to a new form of protectionism. Such insidious obstacles to free and open trade have to be done away with so that the global economy can benefit from an equitable, transparent and rule-based multilateral trading system, with the World Trade Organization as its embodiment. Our common aspirations for global economic and social development will never be realized until all forms of discrimination are removed from society and opportunity is afforded equitably to all humanity. The Programme of Action for the Third Decade to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination (1993-2003) should be the vehicle of our endeavours to end all forms of racism and racial discrimination. The Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action, adopted at the Fourth World Conference on Women, must be vigorously implemented at all levels. Likewise, implementation of the Copenhagen Declaration and Programme of Action is essential for the attainment of a positive environment for enhancing the human condition. As to the environment, it is regrettable that the special session of the General Assembly devoted to the review of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development and Agenda 21 has revealed that the commitments to the Rio Conference and to the Agenda have not been substantially fulfilled. The international community, particularly the countries that have the technological and financial resources, must summon the political will to bring positive action to support Agenda 21. Vigorous measures should also be taken in defence of our human resources and social values against the thrusts of international crime, drug trafficking and drug abuse. We therefore remain committed to support the mechanisms of the United Nations anti-crime and anti-drug programmes. We look forward to the convening of a special session of the General Assembly in 1998 to assess the situation and to develop further ways and means of combating these international social evils. In the area of human rights, the United Nations should continue to strengthen its role as the architect of a common plan based on a holistic approach toward the promotion of, and respect for, the inherent dignity of the human being. At all levels, we must work with all interested parties, maintain constructive relationships and foster dialogue and cooperation as the most effective means of advancing human rights. In this regard, Indonesia stands ready to cooperate with the High Commissioner for Human Rights. We also support all initiatives promoting a more balanced approach to human rights. In this context, we note with interest the 19-point Universal Declaration on Human Responsibilities proposed by the InterAction Council. We agree with former Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser, the InterAction Council Chairman, that, if adopted by the international community, the Declaration on Human Responsibilities, together with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, could serve as twin pillars providing an ethical base for a just world. Indeed, freedom without acceptance of responsibility can destroy freedom itself, whereas when rights and responsibilities are balanced, freedom is enhanced. We have always held that although the individual should not be sacrificed in the name of society, neither should society be allowed to disintegrate to accommodate the individual. Without this fine balance, neither rights nor responsibilities can meaningfully exist. Allow me to take this opportunity to express the gratitude of my Government to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) for the singular honour it recently bestowed on Indonesia by formally citing His Excellency President Soeharto and the people of Indonesia for “outstanding accomplishments and commitments to the significant reduction and continued eradication of poverty in Indonesia and for making poverty eradication an overriding theme of national development efforts.” This is an honour that Indonesia holds in trust for all developing countries endeavouring, in spite of their constraints and adversities, to attain a better life for their peoples while still contributing to the making of a better world. With developed and developing nations working together within the framework of a revitalized United Nations, we can indeed before too long achieve the final conquest of the most formidable and tenacious enemy of humankind, poverty. 11  ﻿Permit me, on behalf of the Uganda delegation, to express our pleasure at seeing Mr. Udovenko preside over the General Assembly at its fifty- second session. Allow me also to pay a special tribute to his predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia, for the outstanding manner in which he discharged his onerous tasks while presiding over the work of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. I also salute and congratulate Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, for the commitment and dedication he has demonstrated since he assumed this office. We note the initiative announced by the Secretary- General on 16 July 1997, entitled “Renewing the United Nations: A Programme for Reform”. We will participate actively in the deliberations on these bold and far- reaching proposals. The discussions we shall have on the issues contained in the Secretary-General’s proposal will determine the kind of United Nations that can best serve us in the twenty-first century. The issue of the reform of the United Nations is not new. Reform of this Organization has always been a continuous process in which we all have an interest. We all want to see the United Nations revitalized, strengthened and well managed. The United Nations is unique. The reform of the Organization must be approached from the viewpoint of its purposes. In reforming the United Nations, due consideration must be given to its unequal and diverse membership, encompassing different cultures and value systems as well as great economic and social inequalities, which lead to differences of opinion on the different aspects of the work of the Organization and how they might be strengthened. Indeed, most views expressed in the past on reform have come against the background of widespread scepticism. These views see the United Nations as excessively costly, mismanaged, inefficient, bureaucratic, corrupt and overstaffed with low- quality staff. The United Nations, therefore, finds itself at a critical crossroads: neglected in some critical aspects and deliberately eroded in others. Contradictory assessments of its performance and usefulness and divergent views concerning its future role have given rise to political controversy. The important issues of reform must therefore not be viewed merely as a question of cutting costs; rather, reform should aim at the enhancement of the efficiency and effectiveness of the United Nations in the delivery of programmes and services, particularly those addressing the pressing needs of developing countries. In elaborating and implementing the reform package, it is necessary that the programmes that benefit the least developed countries and Africa emerge stronger and better equipped to discharge their onerous responsibilities. The Chairman of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) has already eloquently espoused the African position on the reform of the Security Council. We support this and the Non-Aligned Movement positions. The Security Council should be expanded in both categories on the principle of equitable geographical representation. Africa has already proposed that it be granted two permanent seats with full veto powers. At the 25 same time, the exercise of the power must conform to democratic principles. If the United Nations is to be reformed and made effective, then adequate financing is a matter of top priority. We therefore appeal to all Member States to pay their dues in full, on time and without conditions. Without this commitment, reforms will only be a smoke screen to hide our reluctance to implement the commitments we collectively agreed upon at the celebration to mark the fiftieth anniversary of this Organization two years ago. Related to this is the question of the scale of assessments. Uganda supports the principle of capacity to pay as the fundamental criterion for the apportionment of the expenses of the United Nations. This is critical in order to redress the unfair burden that developing countries in general and the least developed countries in particular continue to shoulder as a result of imperfections inherent in the present scale methodology, which are to their disadvantage. This principle has been consistently reaffirmed by the General Assembly in various resolutions. In this connection, we would like to caution that attempts to impose self-interested positions will not yield any satisfactory outcome. Uganda welcomes the result of the recently concluded agreement in the area of anti-personnel landmines in Oslo. We are particularly satisfied with the progress thus far made on these weapons. On our part, even before the conclusion of the Oslo agreement on these weapons, which cause untold and indiscriminate destruction, we in Uganda had already stopped and dismantled our facilities for their manufacture. We no longer manufacture, import or use these weapons. We call on all peace-loving nations, those that care for the innocent who lose their limbs every minute to landmines, to follow our example. It is our sincere hope that when the agreement on anti-personnel landmines will be opened in Ottawa, Canada, for signature, even those Member States that were reluctant to join in the consensus on the agreement will sign it. We hope that the Oslo process will lead to progress in disarmament negotiations, leading to the complete elimination of nuclear weapons and subsequently of all weapons of mass destruction. The political and economic situation in African remains a matter of grave concern to us. We believe that Africa must continue to search for and to find the most suitable political arrangements that will guarantee peace and stability. African society, since time immemorial, has always emphasized harmony and decision-making by consensus rather than competition and confrontation. Our societies emphasized the good of the whole rather than the untamed pursuit of selfish interests. In short, egalitarianism and equal participation were the hallmarks of societal and political organization. However, as we all know, Africa was exposed to other cultures and systems that introduced new forms of governance and politics. It is not surprising, therefore, that, upon independence, these powerful and pervasive influences, like multiparty politics and fierce competition, tore our societies apart. The conflicts that proliferated in the wake of independence must be understood against this background. We can state boldly today that, this notwithstanding, conflict and chaos in Africa is on the retreat. We have witnessed the end of conflict in Liberia and elections have taken place. Military dictators are now roundly condemned and isolated. The actions that are being undertaken by the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) against the military junta in Sierra Leone — actions that we all support — speak loud. In our own region, the Great Lakes region, we witnessed the rout of the Mobutu dictatorship, a heinous regime that plundered one of the richest countries in Africa almost into oblivion. We refused to accept the military coup of Pierre Buyoya in Burundi and have set out tough sanctions and conditions for the restoration of democratic governance. This position was recently renewed in Dar-es-Salaam. The efforts that we are undertaking, deserve support, be they in the context of the OAU Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Resolution and Management or of regional initiatives such as those involving the Great Lakes, the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) or those of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development on the Sudan conflict. At the same time, countries that have emerged from conflicts need to be given a modicum of moral and material support to allow them get back on their feet. We are all agreed on the need for post-conflict peace-building and the need to establish a continuum from relief to rehabilitation and development. We are also agreed that democracy, good governance and accountability represent the best form of leadership. However, nations that are struggling to reconstruct cannot wait for a full restoration of democratic order before they address urgent humanitarian and relief requirements. Quite often the very transition to the rule of law and to democratic governance is contingent upon significant progress on the humanitarian and economic 26 fronts. It is with these kind of considerations that we would like to see tangible assistance extended to the Democratic Republic of the Congo without delay or preconditions. We must put behind us the chaos that afflicted that country and the sad chapter in the history of the Congo that was brought about by Mobutu’s mismanagement. The survival of the Democratic Republic of the Congo is paramount and should be of concern to all of us. The experience of the United Nations in Somalia and Rwanda has demonstrated the need for improvement in the Organization’s ability to anticipate crisis situations and put in place effective mechanisms to avert such situations, including in the area of early warning. In this connection, we note with satisfaction the strengthening of the United Nations capacity for post-conflict peace-building with the designation of the Department of Political Affairs as focal point for this purpose. We are seized of the grave situation in Congo (Brazzaville) and the Central African Republic. The unsteady progress on a negotiated settlement of the conflicts in Angola, Somalia, southern Sudan and the Western Sahara continue be of concern to us. We call on all the parties to the conflicts to engage in constructive dialogue in order to establish lasting peace. We should all support them in this process. In Uganda, we continue to search for solutions to our economic difficulties. We have therefore continued to implement far-reaching economic reforms that emphasize liberalization, privatization, investment promotion and cost- effectiveness in management. The results are promising, and we have recorded gross domestic product growth rates of more than 6 per cent per annum. Now we are grappling with the need to ensure that economic progress benefits the people, particularly the poorest. This we will address in the framework of a poverty eradication strategy, the pillars of which will include: first, the improvement of physical infrastructure, such as roads and telecommunications; secondly, the universalizing of primary education and the increasing encouragement of private education at the secondary and tertiary levels to unlock the creative power of our population; thirdly, the modernization and diversification of agriculture; and fourthly, the promotion of micro- and small-scale enterprise through improved access to credit for the rural poor. This is a tall order, and we call upon our development partners to support us in this process in the context of the already formulated national action plans and the agreed framework for international development cooperation. The issue of the world’s freshwater resources remains of the utmost concern to my delegation. Water shortages in the next century are likely to restrain economic and social development. A large part of Uganda is covered by fresh water. In Uganda, we attach importance to the economic value of water, and that is why we recognize the importance of its equitable and reasonable use. Unfortunately, our water resources are being choked by the rapid growth and spread of the water hyacinth on Lake Victoria and on other lakes and rivers in the Nile Valley. As we have done in the past, we urgently appeal once again to the international community to extend its support to enable us to address the problem of the water hyacinth. Let me reiterate our confidence in the mission of the United Nations in coordinating and delivering targeted assistance to developing countries in all areas of human endeavour, in partnership with Governments. It is important, therefore, to ensure that the focus of the Organization is sharpened to enhance the relevance and effectiveness of its programmes, be it in the area of governance, poverty eradication, capacity-building or humanitarian assistance. We need a United Nations that will act as an agent of progress and change and that will be equipped to play an effective and leading role in improving the economic and social conditions of all the world’s nations — not just a few. We also want a reformed United Nations that will deal effectively with the growing number of complex international challenges, including development, peace and security. Furthermore, we need a reformed United Nations that must provide global leadership and vision in the twenty-first century.  ﻿At the outset I would like to express my congratulations to the President on the confidence the General Assembly showed in him by electing him to preside over fifty- second session. We have no doubt that his experience and capability in multilateral diplomacy will assist him in conducting the deliberations of this session towards success. We assure him of the cooperation and support of the delegation of the Sudan. I would also like to express my gratitude and appreciation to the President's predecessor, His Excellency Ambassador Razali Ismail, for his distinguished efforts and bold initiatives within the context of strengthening the role of the United Nations and the improvement of its methods of work. Likewise, we would like to extend our congratulations to the United Nations Secretary-General, Kofi Annan. In a very short time since the assumption of his post, he has demonstrated enthusiasm, ability and patience in leading this Organization. This has been embodied in his initiative to reform it, improve its methods of work and enhance its stature. We commend the genuine endeavours of the Secretary-General to reform the United Nations system. In this connection, the Sudan will stand by his side until 21 the United Nations realizes the purposes for which it was established, chief among which is the strengthening of peace and international cooperation for the achievement of development and the eradication of poverty, particularly in Africa and in developing countries. We would also like to affirm the keenness of the Sudan that the programme of reform should result in strengthening the ability of the United Nations to respond to humanitarian, social and developmental issues undertaken by the Organization. Furthermore, the reform should lead to the consolidation of the participation of developing countries in the Organization and their equitable representation in the Secretariat. The Sudan calls for giving the reform endeavours enough time. The results and recommendations of the Open-ended High Level Working Group on the Strengthening of the United Nations System, adopted by the General Assembly, should be given special attention. My country reaffirms its intention to participate effectively in the meetings to be agreed upon within the proper framework, with the aim of reaching a consensus on all aspects of the reform. The Sudan attaches special attention and interest to the issue of reform of the Security Council through the enlargement of its permanent and non-permanent membership, and the improvement of its methods of work. Our interest derives from our deep-rooted conviction about the importance of enhancing transparency and democracy in the work of the Council, so as to respond to the changing realities and the current challenges facing international peace and security, in accordance with the principles and provisions of the Charter which define the duties of the Council in the peaceful resolution of conflict — far from using it as an instrument of peoples' punishment. The Sudan, while welcoming the efforts made for the reform of the Security Council, reaffirms the necessity of observing equitable geographical representation and preserving the principle of state sovereignty. In this connection, we would like to reiterate our commitment to the New Delhi Declaration of the Non-Aligned Movement, as well as our commitment to the African position taken at the Harare summit. We wish to stress the importance of linking the right of veto to the aspects relating to enlargement of the Council and improvement of its methods of work, in a way that would secure a comprehensive consideration through deliberate negotiations relative to all aspects, within a democratic and open-ended membership. It is important to deal with the points that the Foreign Minister of Singapore made in his statement this morning. At this time last year I informed the Assembly of our efforts to establish peace in the Sudan, which resulted at that time in the signing of the “Peace Charter”. Today, it is with honour and pride that I convey to this distinguished gathering that we have succeeded in evolving that “Peace Charter” into a comprehensive “Peace Agreement” signed in April this year by the Government and the fighting factions and political entities in southern Sudan. The Agreement has been endorsed by the Sudanese Parliament, and thus it has, par excellence, become one of the most important political events in the history of the Sudan. The Khartoum Peace Agreement provides for a lasting settlement to the Sudanese problem. The negotiating parties have reached a formula which identifies a framework for peaceful coexistence in the country. In the Agreement, the principle of citizenship constitutes the basis for rights, duties and equality of participation of all Sudanese in the responsibilities of public life, without discrimination as to race or religion. It further consolidates the principle of democratic evolution in the Sudan. It clearly defines the question of power sharing between the state governments and the federal authority within the federal system in the country. In addition, it provides for the bases and criteria for wealth-sharing in the country. With regard to public liberties and human rights, the agreement guarantees the same liberties and rights embodied in divine revelation and in the texts of relevant international instruments and agreements. In that way it will have a considerable influence in consolidating and guaranteeing human rights. Furthermore, the agreement allows for the people of southern Sudan to exercise their right to self-determination through a free referendum to be held at the end of a four-year transitional period. An additional, complementary arrangement was agreed upon to prevent hostilities and ensure a ceasefire between the signatory parties with the aim of enhancing the requisites for peace and stability. Furthermore, in accordance with the collective will of the people of the Sudan, a presidential decree granted an unconditional general amnesty in respect of all crimes committed and all civil and criminal claims asserted during the 14 years preceding the signing of the agreement. 22 In our quest to enhance the scope of a comprehensive and lasting peace, an agreement was reached last week with the only remaining faction that was still carrying arms, thereby allowing for the resumption of peace talks on 28 October 1997 in the Kenyan capital under the auspices of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD). I am honoured to be able to renew the determination and to express the eagerness of the Government of the Sudan for making the forthcoming talks a success. The courageous steps taken by the Government of the Sudan towards achieving a just and lasting peace have been widely commended and appreciated by many States in the world. One of its early positive results was the beginning of the voluntary repatriation of displaced persons and refugees from neighbouring countries. We call upon the United Nations, the international financial institutions and our development partners to contribute to the resettlement of the returnees by shifting from humanitarian assistance to programmes of rehabilitation and the provision of developmental assistance needed to consolidate the foundations of peace, which has been sought for many decades. This call derives its legitimacy from the spirit and content of the Security Council ministerial-level meeting held on 25 September to discuss the current situation in Africa. The meeting consolidated the link between peace and development, the latter being one of the basic human rights. In the same context, in striving to develop a system of good and responsible governance, the Sudan has witnessed important constitutional developments, which have been manifested in the establishment of a national committee for preparing the draft of a permanent constitution to be submitted to the legislative body and then presented to the people in a referendum. In the economic field, in support of a market economy and policies of liberalization, we have taken serious steps towards the rationalization of public expenditure, the privatization of the public sector, the abolition of restrictions on internal and external trade and the promotion of investment. These policies have led to the reactivation of the economy and reduced the inflation rate from 114 per cent at the beginning of this year to 28.5 per cent in August of this year. Furthermore, we have achieved a positive growth rate of 5.5 per cent and stability in the rate of exchange of the national currency. This progress was commended by the International Monetary Fund mission in its report to the Executive Council of the Fund last August. However, the major obstacle to the accomplishment of the economic reform programme continues to be an insufficiency of external resources needed to boost production. We therefore appeal to the donor countries and the international financial institutions to provide the necessary resources for the completion of the process of economic reform. We also reaffirm that the Sudan welcomes and encourages private and joint investments in all fields. As for the problem of debt, it is imperative to address it within a comprehensive international framework and not on a bilateral basis, so as to make possible the building of a world economic system based on justice and equality among all States without distinction. In recognition of the importance of regional economic cooperation, African States have taken steps towards the revitalization of the African Economic Community, in addition to the subregional economic organizations, all of which need the support and assistance of the international community. We should not fail to stress the aspirations of Africa with regard to the implementation of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification and the importance of following up on the outcome of the World Food Summit in the context of achieving food security for the nations of the continent and of the necessity to provide the required resources to the countries concerned. In this context, the Sudan reaffirms its readiness to effectively contribute to the programmes and action plans for the provision of food, with the serious participation of the international community. Economic development on the one hand and security and stability on the other are two sides of the same coin. In speaking about poverty eradication in the African continent, we must stress the need for the realization of peace as a means to guarantee the security of the African peoples on the one hand and to accelerate the continent's development on the other hand. In this respect we commend the positive developments in Liberia and we hope that this model will encourage our brothers in Somalia and Congo (Brazzaville) to stop the bloodshed. We also hope that in Sierra Leone the endeavours being led by the countries of West Africa will succeed in solving the problems facing that country. Africa's need for security, stability and development requires it to become a zone free of nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction. Africa needs assistance in clearing anti- personnel landmines, left behind by civil wars in a number of its countries, including my own. 23 The Sudan supports the efforts of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and of its Secretary-General, Mr. Salim Ahmed Salim, to restore peace and stability in many African States. With regard to the formation of African peacekeeping forces, we stress the need to harmonize any measures taken in this matter with the resolutions and positions of the OAU. Africa should have the right, through its regional organizations, to take the initiative and to lead in this matter. While addressing the subject of economic hardship in Africa, it is incumbent upon us to mention the exasperating effects of the imposition of sanctions, in particular those imposed on the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. We call for the settlement of this issue on the basis of the proposal presented by the OAU and the League of Arab States, supported by the Non-Aligned Movement. We support the proposal of the Non-Aligned Movement to lay down specific measures and rules for sanctions and to strictly observe the provisions of the Charter. We share the concerns expressed by the Secretary- General in his report on the work of the Organization for this year about the negative effects of sanctions on peoples. We look forward to the proposals he has promised to present in this regard. In Asia, we welcome the return of Hong Kong to the parent country, the People's Republic of China. We are following with interest the efforts of the Secretary-General's Special Envoy to Afghanistan. We hope that the parties in conflict will cooperate with the United Nations so as to reach a formula for understanding and agreement. We also call upon the international community to support the continuous efforts to establish peace in the Korean peninsula. With regard to developments in the Middle East, the Sudan believes that a comprehensive, just and lasting peace cannot be achieved without a total commitment to the principles of justice and the complete preservation of the rights of the Palestinian people and the Arab States in the region, or without a commitment to the agreements and accords reached by the parties concerned. Israel should abandon its settlement policies and withdraw from the all the occupied Arab territories on the basis of the relevant Security Council and General Assembly resolutions, which continue to be the point of reference for a peaceful settlement and for the achievement of a comprehensive peace in the Middle East. We agree with what the Secretary-General stated in his report to the tenth emergency special session of the General Assembly about the seriousness of the situation in the region. The Secretary-General warned of the consequences of the settlement policies in the occupied Arab territories and the attempts to effect demographic and legal changes in Al-Quds aimed at its Judaization and the alteration of its legal, geographical, historical, religious and civilizational status. The Sudan calls upon the international community to shoulder its responsibilities in the face of the deterioration of the situation and the escalation of confrontation to save the region from the spectre of war that appears over the horizon as a result of the unacceptable Israeli practices. Furthermore, the Sudan is strongly opposed to Israeli attempts to impose collective sanctions on the Palestinian people whatever the justification or the pretext. In the domain of international relations, the Sudan follows policies and holds firm positions based on its commitment to international and regional charters, the respect of good- neighbourliness and regional cooperation and the suppression of terrorism and threats to regional and international security. The Sudan continues to call for the abandonment of conflict and for regarding the interest of peoples as a priority that supersedes transient disagreements. The application of the slogans of pluralism and democracy that characterize the present epoch in the progress of humanity essentially requires respect for the diverse cultural contexts of the peoples of the world. Those cultures should be allowed the opportunity of free and equitable self-expression in order to enrich human experience and elevate the values of tolerance and acceptance of the other. That would lead to the restriction of recourse to violent and extreme expressions of injustice resulting from isolation and cultural arrogance. All religions uphold the principles of tolerance, the acceptance of pluralism and coexistence with others. The Holy Koran says: “Say Ye: We believe in Allah and the revelation Given to us, and to Abraham, Ismail, Isaac, Jacob, and the Tribes, and that given to Moses and Jesus, and that given to all Prophets from their Lord: We make no difference Between one and another of them: And we submit to Allah.'” (The Holy Koran, II:136). 24 In this context, we support the statement of the German Minister for Foreign Affairs regarding the need to encourage dialogue between civilizations to replace conflicts and rivalry, in order to build a world of tolerance and cooperation and so that slogans of pluralism and democracy may not themselves become a pretext for cultural hegemony. The adoption by the United Nations of the idea of setting up a body to promote dialogue between religions and civilizations would pave the way for the realization of that noble objective and would reinstate respect for lofty moral values. It would act as a strong deterrent to such social ills as drug abuse, the escalation of violence and terrorism and family disintegration, thus clearing the way for a better future for humanity as it enters a new millennium.  ﻿On behalf of the Dominican Republic and its President Mr. Leonel Fernandez Reyna, I wish to convey to our President our warmest congratulations on his well deserved election to preside over this fifty-second session of the General Assembly, at a time when the Organization is taking important steps forward in its re- structuring and modernization in order to meet the challenges of peace and economic and social development for our nations. Our delegation pays tribute to the outgoing President, His Excellency Mr. Razali Ismail, for his outstanding conduct of the deliberations during the last session of the General Assembly. 23 We take this opportunity to express our gratitude to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his assiduity, dedication and hard work in guiding the Organization down a road of reform and modernization that will make it stronger for the new millennium. While remaining faithful to the purposes and principles set forth in the Charter — the maintenance of international peace and security, cooperation for economic, social and cultural development, defence of human rights, and humanitarian assistance — the United Nations should also promote and pursue a reform process which takes into account the many changes that have taken place in a complex international scene. That scene is marked by the end of ideological confrontations and, at the same time, by increasing levels of poverty and ethnic and religious tension, phenomena that pose a threat to our supreme objectives of peace and development for our peoples. The trend within the Organization in recent years to the establishment of working groups, as well as the report of the Secretary-General entitled “Renewing the United Nations: A Programme for Reform”, reflect the strong resolve of Member States to engage in a negotiation and consultation process that could, once their distrust of the past is overcome, culminate in far-reaching changes in the various United Nations bodies. The Dominican Republic attaches special importance to the ongoing reform process, given that it is capable, while respecting the principles and purposes that gave birth to the Organization, of ensuring a more democratic, transparent, representative and efficient system capable of facing the current challenges, especially those of peace and the problems of poverty that affect the peoples of the world. In this regard, the strengthening of the General Assembly, the main forum in which Member States are represented, cannot be postponed. It is imperative to promote a process of better coordination between the Assembly and the Security Council, so that the Assembly can be properly informed, and hence make better recommendations to the Security Council. Aware of the need to strengthen the United Nations, the Dominican Republic calls on this forum to adopt resolutions that can return to the Assembly its capacity as the governing body of the Organization. In this regard, we welcome the proposals of the Secretary-General designed to focus the work of the Assembly on the highest-priority issues and to reduce the duration of its sessions as well as the number of agenda items, so as to allow for their in- depth study. This reorientation should not interfere with the principle of sovereign equality, nor with the plural and universal character that the Organization has maintained over the more than half a century of its existence. Reaffirmation of the democratic principles contained in the Charter must constitute the basis for the current reform process. The Dominican Republic proposes the establishment of mechanisms and working methods that would enable the Assembly to allow reasonable time for making progress on resolving certain conflicts. The problems of peace, security and development are multiple and complex. However, the commitment of the international community expressed in the United Nations should go beyond merely recalling them each year. The aspect of the reform of the Organization that has raised the greatest debate is the one relating to the restructuring and enlargement of the Security Council. Our country hopes that these reforms will promote greater participation by the membership as a whole. Thus, with a more democratic base and a just and equitable selection process, the Council would be in a better position to meet its purposes and objectives. In this regard, the Dominican Republic proposes the expansion of the Security Council from the current 15 to 25 members. This represents less than 14 per cent of the total number of United Nations Member States, whereas in 1945 the figure was slightly above 20 per cent. The Dominican Republic, a founding member of the United Nations, has not yet been a member of the Security Council. In this new phase of its international relations it has a strong interest in participating actively in bodies such as the Security Council and thus making a direct contribution to the maintenance of peace, on which depends the very existence of nations. An encouraging sign in the proposal of the Secretary-General is that the reforms are constantly related to the achievement of the founding principles of the Organization, as expressed in the Charter. Thus, the results of reform will be assessed primarily not on the basis of the relationship of costs to benefits, but rather on how they facilitate the realization of the Organization’s objectives. Our country supports the restructuring of the Organization as long as it promotes more transparent, clearer and more coherent mandates and is directed towards finding lasting solutions to the problems of 24 hunger, underdevelopment, extreme poverty and social injustice, not forgetting the mandates related to peacekeeping. Allow me to refer to the issue of development. The increase in global poverty and the gap between rich and poor countries is today the crucial problem for the international community. Poverty has a negative impact on progress with regard to peace and security, human rights and the strengthening of democratic systems. We must address forthwith the challenge posed by the tremendous economic and social instability of a large number of countries. The Dominican delegation associates itself with the declarations of the Group of 77 adopted in July of this year, at the twenty-second meeting of the group coordinators, because we support strengthening the role of the United Nations in promoting international cooperation for social and economic development. And we are in favour of measures that will promote the formulation and coordination of policies and the provision of technical assistance to developing countries. Our country is making serious efforts to position itself favourably in the world economy and to prepare for globalization. For this purpose, it is currently conducting major economic, monetary, tariff and judicial reforms, while at the same time negotiating free-trade agreements with countries of the region. Also, together with other countries, it is formulating strategies to take advantage of funds from multilateral sources. The achievements of regional groups such as the Central American Common Market, the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), the Andean Group and the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR), among others, are indications of the strong willingness of the Member States to expand their capacities and reduce the negative impact that the new rules of international trade have on our economies and societies. Aware of the commitment to promote at the regional level mechanisms for improving economic growth and combating poverty, the Dominican Republic has in the past year strengthened its relations with the countries of CARICOM and Central America, primarily through the participation of our President in the meetings of heads of State and Government. We are pleased to announce that our country will host the next summit meeting of Central America, Belize and the Dominican Republic and that negotiations for the establishment of a free-trade area between CARICOM and the Dominican Republic should be concluded by the end of this year. At this time allow me to welcome very enthusiastically the initiatives of the group of Central American countries designed to strengthen Central American unity. It is precisely these efforts that have given us faith and confidence in the future of our peoples. During this year, the Dominican Republic has developed a programme for strengthening our links with our neighbouring country, Haiti. For the first time, bi- national joint commissions are crossing the border to find, through dialogue, areas of mutual interest and solutions to some of the problems common to both countries. Regarding our sister Republic of Haiti, we insist on the need for the international community to discharge effectively the economic commitment it made in 1994 with regard to Haiti’s economic recovery and development. The peacekeeping efforts in Haiti, which we have promoted in the United Nations, will not be sufficient to achieve democratic stability unless they are accompanied by resources directed to alleviating the great economic and social problems affecting that nation. We must again emphasize how external debt is weighing down our economies. The onerous costs of debt-servicing hinder our investing more in our peoples, thus deepening the levels of poverty. For the Dominican Republic, the payment of outstanding debts and the interest on them represents nearly 20 per cent of the national budget. As a means of promoting development and social investment projects to combat poverty, we wish to propose to this Assembly that it take the necessary actions to reduce the burden of the external debt in those developing countries that have demonstrated a high level of responsibility in handling their debt. We reiterate the commitment of the United Nations to develop efficient measures for the struggle against poverty. Along with peacekeeping, development cooperation must constitute an overarching goal of the Organization. No financing of activities for peacekeeping, the defence of human rights or humanitarian actions will be sufficient if we do not act responsibly in undertaking multilateral cooperation for development. The proposal to unify the various programmes of the United Nations devoted to development seems to us to be a very important step towards the effective coordination of intersectoral policies, concentrating strategies and 25 development operations in a United Nations Development Group. These initiatives must reorient resources toward areas of priority and achieve better coordination with international funding organizations. Allow me to express the position of my country regarding the evolution of the international situation. Peace is still among the highest aspiration of our peoples. Different points of the planet are currently involved in bloody conflicts which affect common citizens. Security is today not only a matter of the survival of political regimes, but is linked to the very existence of human beings and nature. The Dominican Republic expresses its solidarity with the many conventions of the international community devoted to eradicating corruption, terrorism, drug trafficking and money laundering. These evils disrupt the lives of our peoples, erode our institutions and prevent the strengthening of democracy. We reiterate our conviction regarding the defence of democratic principles and institutionality. In this regard, my country is making tremendous efforts to reform and modernize the State and the judicial system. Establishing means of promoting a transparent public administration, controlling all forms of administrative corruption, is among the ongoing processes in our nation. Dialogue and the search for consensus among the branches of the State and between the executive branch and civil society have become the polestar of public administration of the Dominican Government. The Dominican Republic welcomes and associates itself with the measures taken by the United Nations to extend the presence of the peacekeeping forces in Haiti. Their presence, we believe, strengthens the possibilities for democratic stability and will allow the people to take sure steps on the road towards consolidating the country’s democracy. We stress the need for a definitive and peaceful solution to the conflict in the Balkans, and we call upon the international community to strengthen its efforts to achieve peace in the Middle East. The crisis in that region, which has deteriorated in recent months, demands special attention. We call for respect for all the agreements signed in recent years in order to restore peace in the region. With regard to the Republic of China on Taiwan, the Dominican Republic reiterates its position as presented by our President, Dr. Leonel Fernandez Reyna, regarding the need for the international community to consider the importance of that country, owing to its geographical location and given the fact that security and stability are of great significance for the peace and prosperity of the region. We call for a constructive dialogue between the two sides of the Strait of Taiwan in search of mutual understanding and cooperation. We reiterate that parallel participation of both countries in the United Nations would contribute to the maintenance of peace. Our country supports the efforts under way in various international conferences in Brussels, Oslo, and very soon in Ottawa, regarding the process to achieve a total ban an anti-personnel landmines. The commitment to peace is a commitment to life. The international community has an obligation to promote peace and to defend life in all situations and circumstances. The Dominican Republic, traditionally a peace- oriented nation, does not produce or consume nuclear energy for military purposes; it utilizes such energy for peaceful purposes. In this spirit, the Dominican President signed the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty during his visit to the United Nations last year. Various international conferences are currently discussing conventions on the use of nuclear energy. One of them is the convention to regulate the harm caused to persons and the environment by radioactive waste. The Dominican Republic depends to a large extent on tourism, a tourism of beaches and sun. The quality of our coastal waters is vital for the sector’s development, and any international radioactivity-related damage can mean the collapse of this important sector of our economy. We appeal to the good judgement of the international community to preserve our natural resources. We reaffirm our commitment to the protection of the environment and natural resources. In this spirit, our country has acceded to the United Nations International Convention to Combat Desertification. The Dominican Republic reiterates its commitment to defending and protecting human rights. In this connection, it welcomes the efforts made by the United Nations to concentrate the activities of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Centre for Human Rights. During this year we have had the satisfaction of receiving two international missions on human rights, invited by our Government. A High-Level Mission of the Inter-American Committee on Human Rights (ICHR), of the Organization of American States, 26 visited the country in June, and a mission of the Committee of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of the United Nations, with headquarters in Geneva, is in the country at this very moment. These visits indicate the Government’s interest in ensuring transparency of action to defend and protect human rights in the Dominican Republic. Allow me to refer to the situation of the United Nations International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women. Our country wishes to reiterate the mandate given in Economic and Social Council resolution 1979/11 of 9 May 1979, in which it is clearly and explicitly stated that the headquarters of the Institute would be established in the Dominican Republic, a developing country. The objectives that led to the creation of the Institute are still valid today. Research and training for the purpose of creating new ways for women to contribute to the development of their countries, in the light of women’s needs, are a priority. This concern was manifested at the Beijing Conference of 1995 and in the Platform for Action to follow up the agreements reached in that important forum. In order to cooperate with the United Nations, the Dominican Government not only donated the building housing the Institute but also invested large amounts of money to renovate the building and adapt it to the Institute’s needs. This explains our surprise when, in 1993, the United Nations Secretariat proposed the merger of the Institute and the United Nations Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM), without prior consultation with our Government and ignoring the headquarters agreement. However, in 1995 the Fourth World Conference on Women, in its Beijing Platform for Action, confirmed the Institute’s mandate. We hope that in the process of United Nations reform all the mandates approved by the Member States will be equally respected, since these States bear sole responsibility for renewing or changing decisions adopted by the General Assembly. Lastly, we welcome the summoning of Member States to reflect on and endorse these transformations in our world Organization. The Assembly of the millennium proposed to us for the year 2000 would be an unprecedented forum for evaluating what we have done on the road to these reforms and for reiterating our tremendous faith and trust in the future of the generations of the twenty-first century. At this fifty-second session of the General Assembly we are faced with the historic responsibility of giving greater reality to our hopes and expectations for a better future for humankind. The changes in those realities are taking place faster than the changes in the structures we have given ourselves for dealing with them. We have a unique opportunity to ensure that the reforms of the Organization respond to the expectations of a United Nations that is in line with the needs of the new age.  ﻿I am privileged today to be able to congratulate the President, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Vanuatu, on his election to preside over the Assembly at a period critical to the life of the Organization and its role in future relations between our countries and peoples. I should like to assure him of the full support and cooperation my delegation and my country will lend him and his country, Ukraine, during his mandate. I should also like to take this opportunity to express the warmest congratulations of the Government and people of Vanuatu to the President of the preceding session, Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia, on the role he played during a period in mankind’s history that 15 will be noteworthy for a series of events that were important both on an international level and on various regional levels. This is also a special opportunity for me to welcome the new Secretary-General of the Organization, Mr. Kofi Annan, and to reiterate the support of the Republic of Vanuatu for him in carrying out his mandate as Secretary- General and, in particular, for the new initiatives he has taken and committed himself to take in the process of dialogue and consultation with all Member States with regard to the future of the Organization. After more than 50 years of existence, the United Nations today finds itself facing an economic and international political situation that is increasingly complex and particularly more difficult for small developing countries in general, and especially so for the least developed small island countries, like the Republic of Vanuatu. This situation should be recognized as one of the major challenges to the international community and one that must be dealt with through more committed international cooperation, particularly favourable treatment being given to meet the specific needs of those countries and populations that are its victims. For the Republic of Vanuatu, the highest priority remains the economic development and social well-being of its population, more than 80 per cent of whom live in rural areas or on islands far from the administrative and commercial centre. The maintenance of political stability and social harmony in a country depends and will continue to depend, first and foremost, on the country’s orientation and economic development process. The rhetoric of certain development partners in trying to make their technical and financial assistance contingent on the political commitment of government leaders and on the maintenance of peace is futile with regard to the Pacific region. Such rhetoric tends rather to challenge the very integrity of these leaders and their commitment to socio-economic development in their respective countries. Genuine international cooperation must not only be based on the high-priority socio-economic needs of the developing countries and on the interests of the donors; it must above all be anchored firmly in respect for the principles of sovereignty and mutual acknowledgment of the competence of the national political authorities in the exercise of their functions in office. In the framework of its restructuring and in the context of new international challenges, the United Nations is called upon to play a leading role in international cooperation on the basis of these new elements. In this regard, the Government of Vanuatu most warmly welcomes the Secretary-General’s initiative to establish a special development account for the developing country Members. I also wish to recall the importance and role of regional and subregional forums in the process of establishing and strengthening international cooperation. In our part of the world, the South Pacific Forum and the Melanesian Spearhead Group are concrete examples of such cooperation and their initiatives deserve the recognition and support of the international community. On 24 October 1995, during the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the entry into force of the United Nations Charter, the head of the delegation of Vanuatu declared from this rostrum the support of the Republic of Vanuatu for the reform and rational management of the United Nations system. Today, I reaffirm the support of my Government and congratulate Secretary-General Kofi Annan for the courage and determination that he has demonstrated in drafting and implementing this crucial reform. I fully share the Secretary-General’s point of view when he emphasizes in his report that “Reform is not an event; it is a process” (A/51/950, para. 25). It is well known that, throughout today’s world, reform is also the sine qua non for a State’s sustainable economic and ecological growth and development. Indeed, the global challenges that States must face require the constant review and ongoing reform of development policies and of the institutions of state, in order that the latter may become instruments and tools adapted to and honed for the accomplishment of specific tasks, while contributing to the vision of development that we have set for ourselves. Seventeen years after attaining its independence, my country, Vanuatu, has made great social and economic strides. However, the disproportionate challenges facing a small island State such as Vanuatu determined us to initiate a reform programme early this year. This global reform programme, as we call it, covers the formal and informal economic sector as well as the public sector, in the broad sense of that word. With our reform, we would equip our country with the means to meet the major development challenges of the twenty-first century and to avoid or reduce the effects and risks, natural and 16 otherwise, that stalk all developing countries and small island States in particular. This vision of the future that we have crafted for our country requires the creation of dynamic economic conditions in which the private sector is the major protagonist. In most cases, attempts by Governments to act directly in the production of goods and services have purely and simply failed. It also requires the establishment and development of appropriate institutional machinery for technical and financial assistance that will promote the creation, development and growth of private enterprise while placing greater responsibility in the individual. As the General Assembly is aware, it is not enough to create conditions for the development of a dynamic private sector that is a driving force for growth if we seek development that is economically and ecologically sustainable and fair. Indeed, in our case, we consider the reform and revitalization of the State as another sine qua non of this sustainable and fair development. Hence, public administration must be made more effective and freed from any adverse political interference, allowing us thus to reestablish transparency, confidence, stability and the security of private investment. Our reform is designed above all to eliminate existing injustices and not to create others, which would represent failure and backsliding. With our reform, we seek equitable development that takes into account the development needs of our children and of generations to come. The redistribution of the benefits of reform and the situation of women, children and other disadvantaged groups must be seriously considered in the implementation of this reform. Guaranteed fairness requires the assignment of the highest priority to education through the allocation of available resources. Only an up-to-date and high-quality education will equip each individual with the necessary skills and allow him to satisfy his basic needs and maintain his dignity. It must be clear to all that the decision of the Economic and Social Council on 18 July to graduate my country, the Republic of Vanuatu, from the list of least developed countries was a surprise. I take this opportunity to reiterate the position of the Government of Vanuatu, as reflected in the official correspondence between my Government and the Secretary-General, the President of the Economic and Social Council and a certain number of friendly countries Members of the United Nations. While recognizing the sensitive nature of this question, the Government of Vanuatu solemnly calls on this Assembly to consider putting off the question of graduation to the year 2000, when the indicators for identifying least developed countries will be finalized by the Committee for Development Planning. My Government recently launched a global reform programme and will need the full support of the donor community in order to implement our reform and give our country the infrastructure indispensable to our growth. Similarly, during the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States held in Barbados, it was decided to develop indicators for the vulnerability index appropriate to this category of United Nations Member. In this context, we consider the decision of the Committee for Development Planning to be premature and in no way reflecting the spirit of that United Nations resolution. Moreover, with more than 80 per cent of our population living in the countryside on food-producing subsistence agriculture; a well-paid expatriate population; and official development assistance equal to the State’s annual budget and representing 20 per cent of our gross domestic product, we feel that the Committee for Development Planning’s decision can only stem from a lack of adequate information. We do not understand why least developed countries in the same situation as Vanuatu are treated differently and demand that we receive exactly the same treatment as any that, like us, meets two of the current identifying indicators for least developed countries, as laid down in the Committee’s report. (spoke in English) As recognized by the Rio Conference and the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, held in Barbados, the issue of environment and its close association with the concept of development has become highly complex and sensitive. The convening of international conferences and the formulation of international treaties such as the Framework Convention on Climate Change are a clear demonstration of the significance of environmental issues in our development efforts. Small island countries like Vanuatu and other Pacific island countries have taken some tough decisions to 17 introduce restrictive measures internally in support of the international call for environment protection. They have also committed their Governments and nations to the principle of instituting a legally binding instrument which would guarantee the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions to an internationally accepted level. To the Pacific island countries, particularly the low- lying nations, a failure to fully address the issue at hand and to reach an acceptable solution could put into question the commitment of the international community, and could constitute a great security risk for our islands and our future generations. The Republic of Vanuatu recognizes the United Nations initiatives and engagement in the globalization and liberalization of trade. The building up of the multilateral trading system since 1995 is a manifestation and reflection of the United Nations effort and desire to create a global and uniform trading environment that is conducted and based on the new rules and obligations provided in the Marrakesh Declaration. My country has embarked on a wider process of consultations to seek membership of the World Trade Organization (WTO). The challenges and opportunities offered by this new regime are considerable, and therefore weaker economies like ours require time to adjust to their economic policies in order to accommodate the prescribed obligations and requirements of the multilateral trading system. In this context, we would like to develop a common approach through the United Nations system, as well as the European Union, as our partners, in coming to terms with the demands and obligations of the newly established multilateral trading system. While all of us, in particular small islands and least developed States, recognize the need to come to terms with the World Trade Organization, we cannot and should not allow ourselves to be unduly pressured by its demands on these matters where we need to protect our trade preferences and interests. What we perceive to be negative and of less relevance to us in the World Trade Organization must be changed according to our interests. There needs to be scope for all the small and vulnerable States to be accorded sufficient time to undertake reforms in trade and investment competitiveness with a view to creating a positive impact on the economy, particularly in their efforts to source private capital flows and foreign direct investment. Allow me at this point to refer to the future relations between the 71 African, Caribbean and Pacific States (ACP) and the European Union when the current fourth Lomé Convention expires in the year 2000. After some 25 years, it is important to take stock and reflect on the challenges, opportunities and weaknesses of the Convention by reviewing the existing framework of cooperation. From a wider ACP perspective, there is generally a stronger desire and willingness to retain and strengthen the existing framework of cooperation in the areas of political, economic, trade and development assistance. I would like to take this opportunity to strongly urge the international community, through this fifty-second session of the General Assembly, to recognize that there are realities which continue to warrant the need for continuity of the partnership between the ACP States and the European Union beyond the year 2000. In conclusion, allow me to reaffirm my Government’s support for the process of reforming our great Organization which was begun by Mr. Kofi Annan in order to enable it to deal successfully with the challenges of the twenty-first century.﻿In taking the floor for the first time before this Assembly, I feel legitimately proud to be the voice with which the people of Chad, its Government and its President, His Excellency Mr. Idriss Déby, convey a message of peace, hope and wishes for complete success in our work. I would like to join the eminent speakers who have preceded me in reiterating my delegation’s warm congratulations to the President on his illustrious election to preside over this session. That choice is both a tribute to his country, Ukraine — a country resolutely focused on the quest for global peace — and the culmination of his long career as a talented diplomat. He can be assured of the complete support of my country, Chad, in the discharge of his duties. I would also like to take this opportunity to express our gratitude to his predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail, who has conducted the work of the fifty-first session with tact, competence and devotion. Lastly, I would like to greet our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, a son of Africa who has succeeded another great African, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. The election of Mr. Kofi Annan is the culmination of a brilliant career devoted to the service of the international community. It is an honour to his country, Ghana, and to all Africa. I should like to assure him of the firm support of the Republic of Chad in his efforts to bring about the necessary and indispensable reforms of our Organization so as to make it more capable of achieving the purposes and principles of the Charter in our rapidly changing world. The ideals of peace, liberty and development, which are pursued tirelessly by each and every nation represented here, are of special significance for my country and people. Indeed, drawing upon the lessons of its sad experiences, since 1 December 1990 Chad has made a firm commitment to the establishment of a state of law and the tireless quest for peace and national unity which are the essential foundations for its economic and social development. At previous sessions the delegation of Chad regularly referred to positive developments in our country. Today I have the honour and privilege of announcing that with the presidential election of 1996 and the legislative elections held at the beginning of this year, most of our republican and democratic institutions are in place. Projects are under way to hold local elections. All this is taking place in a climate of peace and national harmony. The ongoing quest for peace between Chadians, the necessary consolidation of the achievements of national unity and the willingness to involve everyone in public administration have compelled our President, Mr. Idriss Déby, to practise what we call consensual, participatory democracy. It follows that all political parties, including those of the opposition, are represented in all State structures. By the same token, a national mediator has recently been appointed. The fifty-second session of the General Assembly coincides with the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This is the proper place to reaffirm our loyalty to that instrument, which, despite its imperfections, is, in its own language, 14 “a common standard of achievement”. (Universal Declaration of Human Rights, resolution 217 (III), part A, operative paragraph) In Chad we are getting down to work, and significant progress has been registered. Thus, our independent press is one of the freest in Africa; human rights organizations are proliferating and carry out their activities unhindered; and organized civil society is fully playing its role. Despite these noteworthy advances, insidious campaigns have been sporadically unleashed against my country. For my Government the subject of human rights is not taboo. Thus, I should like once again to reiterate the invitation that Mr. Idriss Déby, President of the Republic, extended during his last visit to France to all countries and human rights organizations that are truly interested in the fate of the people of Chad: to come to Chad and freely look into the situation. With the return to social peace and political stability, my country is turning a new page in its history, one that should enable it to face the challenges of the twenty-first century. To do that, the Government of Chad has adopted a number of principles that, backed up by concrete actions, should make it possible to achieve vigorous and sustained economic growth. The objectives are the following: the continuation and consolidation of the process of democratizing political and social life; the increased participation of the citizens in political, economic and social life and in making decisions that concern them; the establishment of sound rules of government; the promotion of the private sector; the development of human resources; and the restoration and safeguarding of environmental equilibrium and of the ecosystem, with special attention being paid to environmental problems related to human activities. This entire development strategy will be presented and discussed at the round table on Chad to be held in Geneva in the months ahead. That meeting is necessary to reactivate and adapt the plan of orientation covering the period 1990- 2000. I take this opportunity to invite all countries and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to take part in that important conference on the future of Chad. I should now like to touch on a problem that is of crucial importance for my Government: the environment. Chad is a Sahelian country, afflicted, moreover, by drought and desertification. It is deeply concerned with protecting the environment, our common heritage, whose exploitation for us is a necessary condition for success in the struggle against poverty. This is the appropriate forum in which to express our hope that the results achieved by the Conference of States Parties to the Convention to Combat Desertification will meet our expectations. The prospect of the exploitation of Chad’s oil resources has led to a systematic disinformation campaign alleging environmental degradation in the region concerned. I should like solemnly to state here that all necessary measures have been taken by the Government not only to preserve environmental balance but also to prevent any risk of accident that could jeopardize it. Another subject of grave concern indirectly connected with the environment is that of mines, an estimated 1 million of which infest a large portion of the national territory, thus precluding any development activities in that region. We would reiterate in this respect the appeal for assistance in mine clearance that was made from this rostrum by President Idriss Déby during the commemorative meeting on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. My Government, a victim of the scourge of mines, welcomes the adoption on 18 September last of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti- Personnel Mines and on Their Destruction. The international situation remains alarming, even if peace ad security are not gravely threatened at the global scale. In Africa, despite the hopes born of the democratization of the political life of many countries, hotbeds of tension still persist. In Angola, implementation of the settlement plan advocated by the international community is running aground on obstacles that jeopardize a final return to peace in this country. We call again on all parties, particularly UNITA, fully to implement the Lusaka Protocol. Periodic clashes remind us that in Somalia, the hatchet has not definitely been buried, despite numerous attempts at reconciling the fraternal Somali people. The Great Lakes region is progressively entering a phase of relative calm despite sporadic incidents stemming from the chain of events that have caused upheaval in this part of the continent. We welcome the concerted efforts of the international community and of the countries of the subregion to help restore a definitive peace. 15 In Sierra Leone, the situation resulting from the coup is far from responding to the wishes of the people. Chad, for its part, strongly supports the consultations held within the framework of the Economic Community of West African States, and in particular the conclusions of its last Summit, held in Abuja, Nigeria. In Central Africa, closer to Chad, the exacerbation of the conflict in the sister Republic of the Congo, despite the appeal made at Libreville by eight Heads of State on 15 September last, is of great concern to us. My country is of the view that only an immediate and unconditional cease- fire can make it possible to re-establish dialogue between the two parties. This in turn would make possible a greater involvement of the international community, particularly for the deployment of a multinational force under the auspices of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity (OAU). The scope of the tragedy of these upheavals on the African continent can be gauged by the number of homeless and of refugees who, left to their own devices, are wandering from country to country, seeking a land to receive them where they can live in peace. It is urgent for the international community to take greater notice of these tragedies, which concern us all, in order to find appropriate solutions. This sombre picture of the situation on the continent does not eclipse the successes of international and, above all, African mediation in crisis and conflict situations, such as in the Central African Republic and in Liberia. In the Central African Republic, the painstaking settlement of the political and military crisis to the satisfaction of the political class is, for Chad — a neighbouring, brotherly country — cause for satisfaction. Likewise, we welcome the return to peace in Liberia, which has made it possible to designate a President of the Republic and a Parliament by means of free and democratic elections. In both cases, the contribution of Africa was decisive. We are proud of this, just as we commend the Security Council for its support of various African initiatives. This compels me to urge the acceleration of the process leading to the establishment of an inter-African peacekeeping force. We also urge the strengthening of existing structures, such as the Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa; the Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa at Lomé, in Togo; and the OAU’s Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution. With respect to Western Sahara, Chad welcomes the fresh impetus given the process by both parties and hopes that the settlement plan will shortly be implemented in full. In the Middle East, the Israeli-Palestinian peace process seems to be put to the test, given recent developments in this region. We urge all parties concerned to respect the Washington agreements. This is the only alternative if we are to achieve definitive peace in this region. Neither violence nor extremism, nor, certainly, intransigence will allow us to arrive at a just and definitive solution to this crisis, which has gone on far too long. In Asia, the situation in Afghanistan and in Cambodia can be solved only by political means. Therefore we urge the protagonists to gather around the negotiating table and seek to resolve their differences. Chad welcomes the progress, however slow, that has been registered in recent years in disarmament. We denounce, however, the shocking trade in conventional weapons, which foment so many conflicts that ravage various parts of the world, including my country. We therefore support the efforts initiated in western Africa related to the moratorium on the export, import and production of small arms. My country reaffirms its unswerving faith in the virtues of dialogue as a means of resolving conflicts between States. I should like in this connection to refer to the question of the embargo that has so harshly and for so many years afflicted the neighbouring and brotherly country of Libya. Chad is in a good position to gauge the consequences that affect not only the people of Libya but also the people of Chad, as that country’s neighbour. That is why, as a country that is dually cut off and deprived of its principal means of evacuation and supply, Chad firmly supports the resolutions of the OAU, the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the Non-Aligned Movement, and calls for the lifting of this unjust embargo. We should like to take this opportunity to express our solidarity with the people of Iraq and Cuba, who have been indiscriminately affected by similar measures. My country has noted with satisfaction the end of the bipolar world, which has made possible the advent of a new type of constructive dialogue that will enable us together to meet the challenges of the twenty-first century. In resuming diplomatic relations with the Republic of China, the Government and people of Chad 16 have no intention other than to diversify their relations of friendship and cooperation with all peace- and justice- loving countries of the world on the basis of equality and solidarity. In the name of the principle of universality so dear to our Organization, we support the return of the Republic of China to the concert of nations. While the conflicts and other tensions throughout the world concern us, so too does the international economic situation. The justifiable fear expressed by the developing countries in the aftermath of the cold war has not been mitigated. The recent report of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development reminds us of this. Poverty in the developing countries and the impoverishment of important social strata in the developed countries provide fertile ground for intolerance, extremism and nationalism, whose consequences we are all too familiar with. Despite the numerous dense documents adopted at major conferences, the expected concrete action has run aground on the selfish conduct of the richest. Such an attitude imposes limits upon the globalization of the economy. Africa, which has benefited from the sustained attention of the international community during this decade, is still, unfortunately, a continent ravaged by poverty, malnutrition and epidemics of all kinds on a large scale. To the perpetual problems of indebtedness and the deterioration of the terms of trade are added the constant marginalization of our continent from the international economic circles. It is therefore urgent for concrete measures to be taken so that Africa can experience sustained growth, which should lead to genuine development. The terms of the declaration of the Heads of State and Government of the seven most industrialized countries and Russia in Denver last May should be made a reality in this respect so that Africa, whose well-known vast natural resources can really become part of the world economy. The new Chad reiterates its unswerving support of United Nations action in the sphere of peacekeeping and in the area of development activities. Over time, the reform of our institution has become an imperative. Therefore, in the context of globalization and interdependence, the United Nations must adapt itself and become both the instrument and the expression of multilateralism in which the interests of all are taken into account and safeguarded. For our part, we consider that the promotion of development must be at the core of our renewed Organization. The United Nations deserves more confidence than ever before, provided that it derives from incontrovertible legitimacy which the Security Council with its present composition is far from embodying. It has now been established that that irreplaceable body should be adapted, but its necessary restructuring should not have a detrimental effect on any part of the world. An acknowledgement of the legitimate claims of the various groups that make up our Organization is therefore indispensable. Chad, for its part, reaffirms the position stated at the last Summit of Heads of State or Government of the Organization of African Unity to assure the equitable representation of the African continent in that body, in which the destiny of peoples is at stake. This is a requirement if the renewed Security Council is to be credible and effective in the service of humanity and if it is not to be a Council of double standards. Mr. President, at the outset, I would like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty- second session. I also wish to thank your predecessor, Mr. Razali Ismail, for his excellent work during the last session of the General Assembly. The ongoing session of the General Assembly is crucial in terms of showing the capability of the United Nations to react adequately to changes in the global scene after the end of the cold war, mainly in connection with problems humankind faces on the eve of the new millennium. We all know that if the United Nations is to meet the expectations and needs of the new era, it must go through a process of reform. The Slovak Republic welcomes the Secretary-General’s report (A/51/950) entitled “Renewing the United Nations: a programme for reform” and supports his endeavours to streamline the work of the Organization in order to achieve greater unity of purpose, strategic deployment of resources, coherence of efforts and flexibility in response. The suggestions included in the Secretary-General’s report reveal a firm determination to transform the United Nations into a centre which takes an active part in governing international relations, in accordance with its main principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. Though one of the basic goals of the reform is to streamline the work of the Organization, along with cost-saving, the latter should not be the final goal of the reform, since this approach itself does not lead to the strengthening of the United Nations system. Any reform of the Organization which would lead to a weakening of its position is not acceptable. The financing of the United Nations is necessarily an integral part of its reform, since continuation of the current financial crisis has a grave impact on the performance of the Organization. We believe the principle of honouring legal obligations — in this case, the payment of assessed contributions — should be a basis for any solution to be adopted, although we understand that a number of countries are in arrears to the Organization because their rates of assessment do not reflect their capacity to pay. Slovakia belongs to a small group of countries — so-called good contributors — having paid its regular budget contributions in full and on time this year. With regard to our peacekeeping- budget assessment, the General Assembly decided to allocate Slovakia to group C of Member States for the period 1993 to 1996. We continue to believe that there is no need to limit this decision strictly to such a short period. Speaking in terms of capacity to pay, Slovakia simply belongs to group C of the Member States. For this reason, the General Assembly should no longer postpone its decision on the permanent allocation of Slovakia to group C of the Member States for the financing of United Nations peacekeeping operations. We expect that the General Assembly at its fifty-second session will take a decision confirming the permanent presence of Slovakia in this group. It was also on the understanding of the difficult financial situation of the United Nations that Slovakia, on the eve of the fifty- second session of the General Assembly, paid in full its arrears to the peacekeeping budget for the period 1993- 1996. The maintenance of international peace and security remains one of the main priorities of the United Nations and peacekeeping operations are a key instrument available in this regard. As experience in recent years has shown, the ability to respond quickly with adequate mandate and means is a prerequisite to the successful completion of peacekeeping operations. The Slovak Republic fully supports the Secretary-General’s efforts to build up the United Nations standby arrangement system and to establish a rapidly deployable mission headquarters team. We are ready to participate actively in this system while considering the allocation of appropriate means. Post-conflict peace-building is of crucial importance should a conflict resolution achieve lasting results. In recent years, the reconstruction of a conflict-torn society has involved a variety of actions. Many actors have been engaged in this process while lacking integrated coordination. Therefore, we welcome the decision of the Secretary-General to make the Department of Political Affairs the focal point for defining objectives, criteria and operational guidelines in this regard, as well as his intention to strengthen the role of a special representative of the Secretary-General to be responsible for the implementation of peace-building initiatives in the field. At the same time, in our view, it is still necessary clearly to define the competence, interaction and feedback between the Department of Political Affairs and the special representative of the Secretary-General. The contribution of the Slovak Republic to the work of the United Nations rests first of all upon the concrete fulfilment of the primary purposes of the Organization, such as the maintenance of international peace and security. Slovakia has been currently contributing its troops and military observers to the United Nations Transitional Administration for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Sirmium (UNTAES) in Eastern Slavonia and to the United Nations Observer Mission in Angola (MONUA) in Angola. It also takes active part in the work of the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations, of which it became a member in April this year, and thus contributes to the improvement of the planning and control system of United Nations peacekeeping operations. On this occasion, I can state with full responsibility that the Slovak Republic is interested in and is ready to continue contributing to United Nations peacekeeping operations. Experience has proven that small and mid-size States are capable of bearing their part of the responsibility for stability and security in individual world regions. In this connection, the Government of the Slovak Republic has decided to present its candidature for a non-permanent seat in the Security Council for the term 2000-2001. We believe that the candidature of the Slovak Republic, which is not currently a member and has no representative in any of the principal United Nations organs, can win the support of the Member States in order to increase the representativeness and democratic nature of this body. Along with the reform measures initiated and undertaken by the Secretary-General within his competence, a discussion of important issues that reside within the jurisdiction of Member States is under way. A number of stimulating as well as antagonistic opinions reflecting the complexity of the process have been formulated. The most evident example of this is the question of Security Council reform. It is in all our interests that the Security Council’s composition and decision-making procedure reflect the significant changes that have taken place on the international political scene during the last three decades. The Security Council’s reform should result in an enhancement of its legitimacy and representativeness, while maintaining its ability to react promptly. In our view, a new geopolitical situation on the global scene should be reflected in a new concept of the Security Council. Apparently, a decisive part of the general membership is not ready for such a step and political circumstances have not sufficiently matured. At the same time, the efforts aimed at restructuring the Security Council within a predetermined timetable, even in the absence of a general agreement, might be counterproductive. Since Security Council reform is an extremely important and sensitive issue for the further existence of the Organization, Slovakia prefers a 2 continued and thorough discussion in this regard without an artificial acceleration of the whole process. The change of priorities in international politics after the end of the cold war, in particular the utmost necessity to solve various socio-economic problems, seems to have shifted arms control and disarmament issues out of sight. Concerned about this negative trend, we feel that disarmament should again be given priority in the United Nations agenda. Recently, the Slovak Republic, as a new member of the Conference on Disarmament, was honoured to chair that unique multilateral disarmament forum. We are convinced that the Conference on Disarmament must play a further, indispensable role in solving the most important issues of international security, stability, peace, arms control and disarmament. Besides the opening of concrete negotiations on the prohibition of the production of fissile materials for weapons and other explosive devices, we find especially important the question of a global and comprehensive ban of anti-personnel landmines. We understand the efforts to bring this issue to the Conference’s agenda and the Ottawa process to be fully complementary. We highly appreciate the agreement on the text of the Ottawa convention reached recently in Oslo. The Slovak Republic has been continuously engaged in a number of activities that contribute to the alleviation of the consequences of the use of anti-personnel landmines. Reflecting the provisions of the Ottawa convention on the prohibition of anti-personnel landmines, we would like to offer our assistance in mine-clearance programmes by putting at the United Nations disposal a mine-clearance unit that would follow up on the very successful performance of the Slovak Engineer Battalion in former Yugoslavia. We welcomed with satisfaction the conclusions reached at the first session of the Preparatory Committee for the Sixth Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). It is important that the technical and formal approach to the work of the Preparatory Committee has been altered, thus establishing favourable conditions for the success of the Review Conference. The Slovak Republic, which uses nuclear energy solely for peaceful purposes, has supported all steps designed to lead to the elimination of nuclear weapons. As one of the 44 countries needed to ensure the Convention’s entry into force, the Slovak Republic is prepared to ratify the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) before the end of this year. I would also like to state that Slovakia has been honoured to chair the Preparatory Commission for the CTBT Organization. This year’s entry into force of the Chemical Weapons Convention can undoubtedly be considered the most significant event in the field of disarmament. The Slovak Republic has been striving to strengthen the Convention through its active approach to the work of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. We are proud to state that some of the Organization’s inspectors were trained in facilities provided by the Slovak Republic. We are interested in continuing these activities in order to help the Organization fulfil its verification and preventive functions. Support for economic and social progress is one of the basic missions of the United Nations. We welcome the creation of a new Department of Economic and Social Affairs, and we believe that this will lead to its further streamlining and efficient performance. The Organization is a unique forum that can facilitate close cooperation and partnership for development among Governments, civil society, the private sector and regional and global organizations. The role of the Economic and Social Council, as set forth 50 years ago in the United Nations Charter, needs to be revised. In a time of changing social and economic- development philosophy, it is necessary to strengthen the policy-management and coordination roles of the Economic and Social Council, as well as its position in the macroeconomic-policy-coordination dialogue. The reform of the subsidiary bodies of the Economic and Social Council and the rationalization of their structure, work and functions require, in our opinion, a careful approach, one to be taken with full respect for their autonomy while aiming at their further rationalization and consolidation. The steps taken so far by the Secretary- General in this field are pointing in the right direction. Slovakia, as a member of the Commission on Sustainable Development and the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment Programme, devoted considerable attention to the nineteenth special session of the General Assembly. Although the special session has not brought the expected results, we consider it an 3 important step in the global discussion on the strengthening of the principles of sustainable development. We look forward with anticipation to the special session of the General Assembly on drugs. That session, which will be held next year, should yield concrete results with regard to combating the production of and trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. As we all know, drugs pose a real threat, mainly to younger generations. Since the Slovak Republic’s establishment as an independent State, it has been participating actively in the work of one of the most important multilateral development bodies, namely, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). Slovakia has been a member of the UNDP Executive Board since 1993. The UNDP regional centre for Central and Eastern Europe was established in the Slovak capital, Bratislava, in June of this year. The creation of this centre is a concrete example of the achievement of United Nations reform, in this instance of UNDP’s efforts for decentralization at the country level and cutting the burden of administrative costs. The centre’s foundation has been actively supported by Slovakia, and use has been made of my country’s advantageous position as a bridge between UNDP secretariat activities at Headquarters in New York and UNDP efforts in the countries of Eastern Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States region. We are convinced that the presence of the UNDP regional centre in Bratislava will enable Slovakia to be even more active in development cooperation within the United Nations development group. Human rights are a matter of the highest priority among the activities of the United Nations. Slovakia stresses the need for the consistent implementation of relevant United Nations resolutions. In this regard we support the role of special rapporteurs appointed to selected countries where systematic human rights abuses occur. We acknowledge the results the special rapporteurs have achieved in this field. The Slovak Republic supports the ambitious proposals for restructuring United Nations institutions dealing with human rights in order to create effective conditions for improved protection of human rights. In this connection, we consider it appropriate and necessary to harmonize the activities of the Commission on Human Rights with the work of the relevant expert committees established pursuant to international human rights treaties. At the same time, the Slovak Republic supports the creation of effective conditions for tripartite cooperation among Governments, the United Nations and non-governmental organizations. Human rights abuse has been the cause of a number of conflicts in many places on our planet, which are often followed by a humanitarian crisis on a massive scale. Women and children are the most fragile sectors of any afflicted population. We must not forget this fact while pursuing the purposes of the United Nations. I believe that the United Nations reform process will be successfully completed in next few years. I find the Secretary-General’s programme for reform to be an important step in this regard. The Slovak Republic is prepared to contribute to this process so that the United Nations can approach the next millennium as a modern, viable, global body with the adequate authority to fulfil the purposes embodied in the United Nations Charter.  ﻿Allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on behalf of my country, Guinea-Bissau, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly and to reiterate our confidence in your ability to conduct the work of this session successfully. You can rest assured of the willingness of the delegation of Guinea-Bissau to cooperate with you. I should also like to pay a well-deserved tribute to your predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia, for the innovative and constructive manner in which he carried out his task. Congratulations are also due the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, who, since his assumption of the Organization’s highest office, has shouldered his important responsibilities with great resolve, inter alia with regard to United Nations reform. We encourage him to continue his work with the same dynamic spirit in order better to adapt our Organization to the current and future needs of a world in flux. The General Assembly is meeting at a time when the Organization is going through a period of complex transition that has brought several questions to the fore. Guinea-Bissau is nevertheless convinced of the ability of the Organization and of Member States to define new policies and to develop suitable structures to deal with the new challenges that are being posed by international problems. During the observance of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations the leaders of the entire world solemnly reaffirmed the irreplaceable nature of the Organization’s role as well as the need to reform and modernize the United Nations. The historic Declaration adopted at that time should continue to form the basis of the Organization’s work, laying down as it does a framework for global action based on the principles and ideals of the Charter. Accordingly, we welcome the important initiatives for reform taken by the Secretary-General, which in my delegation’s view are deserving of the support of Member States. My delegation believes that the expansion and democratization of the Security Council are also priority matters. That important body must reflect, both in its composition and in its decisions, the concerns of all Members and should have a more transparent basis and a more equitable geographical representation. Therefore, in keeping with the Harare Declaration of Heads of State and Government of the countries members of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), we believe that Africa should have two permanent seats in the Security Council, with the same privileges as the current members. Similarly, we believe that the candidacies of Japan, Germany and Brazil to be permanent members of the Security Council deserve the serious attention of Guinea- Bissau, without prejudice to other proposals before us for consideration. The United Nations has played a decisive role in international affairs since its founding. However, the challenges we are facing at the threshold of the twenty-first century are unprecedented and call for greater efforts from the Organization and all its Members, particularly in seeking the solution to financial problems, a sine qua non for effective progress in the reform process. Despite the Organization’s commitment to international peace and security, conflicts and fratricidal wars continue in various parts of the world, causing loss of life, massive displacements of population and floods of refugees. Africa, unfortunately, continues to furnish tragic examples of such scourges. The seriousness of these crises on our continent prompted the Security Council to devote a ministerial meeting to such problems on 25 September of this year in an effort to analyse their causes and propose suitable solutions. In addition to conflicts in Angola, Burundi, Rwanda and Somalia, there are new tensions and crises in Sierra Leone, the Republic of the Congo and the Central African Republic. In respect to Angola, a country with which Guinea- Bissau enjoys a relationship of deep friendship, we welcome the progress made there towards restoring peace and achieving national reconciliation, and we encourage UNITA to make the efforts necessary to bring to completion the tasks set forth in the Lusaka Protocol. In Burundi, the Republic of the Congo, the Central African Republic and Somalia dialogue must prevail in the search for solutions to the problems that affect those countries. In Sierra Leone, the United Nations — the Security Council in particular — must support the efforts of the Economic Community of West African States and OAU to restore the democratically elected Government. In Liberia, we welcome the holding of free and fair elections and the return to peace. We urge the international community to continue to provide aid for reconstruction and the consolidation of peace and democracy in that country. Turning to Western Sahara, Guinea-Bissau welcomes the recent agreement concluded between the various parties and hopes that this new understanding will lead to a definitive solution to this question through the holding of a referendum on self-determination. The sanctions imposed on Libya by the Security Council in 1992 seriously affect innocent people. Guinea- Bissau encourages the parties concerned to seek, through negotiations, a just solution to that question. The joint proposals of OAU and the League of Arab States merit the attention of the international community. Recent events in the Middle East have weakened the peace process. We urge the State of Israel and the Palestinian Authority to continue their dialogue to restore a climate of confidence, which is so essential to the establishment of a just, lasting and comprehensive peace in the region. We are also concerned at the slow pace of the implementation of the peace agreement in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we appeal to the various parties to show greater determination to resolve the conflict. In East Timor, we continue to support the negotiations conducted under the auspices of the Secretary-General to find a just and definitive solution to this question. The embargo imposed on Cuba continues seriously to affect that country’s people and development process. We appeal to the parties to take the necessary steps towards a definitive and satisfactory solution to this problem. On behalf of our Government, we should also like to reiterate our conviction that the Republic of China on Taiwan deserves to regain its rightful place in the United Nations on the basis of respect for the principle of universality and the sovereign equality of States. The Republic of China on Taiwan, a democratic country of over 20 million people that has made enormous progress in the economic and social field and with regard to respect for basic human rights, is today a reality that cannot be ignored. The readmission of the Republic of 2 China to the United Nations and to all its specialized agencies would be an important factor for peace, stability and international cooperation. Mindful of the fact that the United Nations, and the Security Council in particular, play an essential role in the maintenance of international peace and security, we attach special importance to regional bodies with respect to conflict prevention and resolution. In our subregion, the Economic Community of West African States has, with unprecedented success, been managing the crisis in Liberia through the establishment and deployment of the ECOWAS Monitoring Group. The steps undertaken through the Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) deserve special mention. Given the magnitude and complexity of the problems to be resolved, that organ needs increased support from the international community to complete its mission. In this context, we believe that any approach to strengthening the capacities of African countries to prevent, manage and resolve conflicts must be supported. Thus, we welcome with interest the joint initiative of the United States, France and Great Britain in this area under the aegis of OAU. Guinea-Bissau welcomes the adoption in Oslo of a draft convention for the complete elimination of anti- personnel landmines and urges all countries to accede to it so that it may enter into force as soon as possible. The intolerable persistence of poverty in the world, particularly in Africa, requires the ongoing mobilization of the international community and the elaboration within international bodies of coherent policies to confront the major problems of development. Given the fact that Africa has more least developed countries than any other continent in the world, the General Assembly’s recent adoption of the Agenda for Development is of the greatest interest to us. Africa continues to suffer the negative effects of the problems of external debt, deteriorating terms of trade, difficult access for its products to international markets and decreased investment. Moreover, the effects of the globalization of the economy and the drop in official development assistance have reduced the capacity of African countries to tackle socio-economic problems successfully. The initiatives of the Paris Club, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund to provide debt relief — initiatives that have already benefited some African countries — meet our concerns and we hope that Guinea-Bissau will soon be able to profit by them. Respect for and the full exercise of fundamental human rights are factors for freedom, peace and guaranteed internal stability. Guinea-Bissau, which recognizes the importance of good governance, pluralistic democracy and a state of law, continues to work for the preservation of values intrinsic to the dignity of the individual and his full, harmonious development. In this regard, we wish to congratulate Mrs. Mary Robinson on her timely nomination to the post of United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. We wish her every success in the performance of her duties and call on all Member States to lend her the support she needs. The rational use of our world’s natural resources and environmental protection are responsibilities which, to varying degrees, fall to all mankind. Guinea-Bissau has, together with its partners, defined a strategy for sustainable development that respects ecological balances. The disappointing results of the review of the implementation of Agenda 21 at last June’s special session of the General Assembly is clear proof that the international community must be much more committed to defining agreed policies for environmental protection. The achievement of the ideals of the United Nations to which our peoples aspire, the need to reform and modernize our Organization, and international cooperative efforts are all the subjects of our collective thinking and the inspiration of our ongoing commitment. Indeed, given the challenges of the late twentieth century, our Organization continues to embody the greatest hopes of our peoples for a future of progress, well-being, social justice and understanding among all peoples. As Mr. João Bernardo Vieira, President of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau, said during the celebration of the United Nations fiftieth anniversary: “I would call for greater ... coordination of our efforts in order to forge a world Organization capable of preserving future generations from the scourge of war and to give the poorest and most helpless true reasons for hope, thus safeguarding the common interests of mankind.” ﻿I congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session. We have no doubt that your diplomatic tact will steer the deliberations of this important session to a fruitful conclusion. My delegation will lend you its full cooperation as you embark on the difficult task ahead of you. Let me now pay tribute to His Excellency Mr. Razali Ismail, your predecessor, who conducted our work during the fifty-first session in a highly remarkable manner. Our tribute goes also to the former Secretary- General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his distinguished leadership during his tenure. We are most grateful to him for his tireless efforts in upholding the objectives of the Organization. The present Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, hails from a country that paved the road towards freedom and national independence in our part of the world. The first leader of his country, Mr. Kwame Nkrumah, was a main catalyst in Africa’s fight against colonial domination. We have no doubt that all these attributes, together with his long-standing experience in the affairs of the United Nations, will contribute to the revitalization and democratization of the Organization. We congratulate him on his election as Secretary-General, and we assure him of our full support and cooperation. At the fiftieth session of the General Assembly, world leaders recaptured the vision of the founding fathers of our Organization. They did so in recognition of the need to map out the institutional framework and operational parameters necessary to forge the effectiveness and continued relevance of the United Nations in this ever-changing international arena. It is that momentum that must be the driving force in our quest for a reformed, revitalized and democratized United Nations. Reform is a process. As long as the United Nations exists and the world continues to change, reform will be necessary. Namibia therefore welcomes the Secretary- General’s report of 16 July 1997 on the reform of the United Nations. Let me place on record that Namibia welcomes and supports reform which enhances the capacity of the United Nations to effectively address the critical development concerns of developing countries. In 4 this context, let me emphasize that we attach utmost importance to the operational activities of the United Nations, for they complement our development efforts. Any reform in this area must strengthen their scope of excellence. As the Secretary-General rightly puts it in his report on the work of the Organization, “times of transformation can be times of confusion” [A/52/1, para. 20]. Managerial issues, therefore, must not and cannot be confused with policy matters. We have long recognized that it is the General Assembly that is best equipped by the Charter to provide the necessary representative leadership. And this authority of the General Assembly my delegation shall seek to uphold. Reform must not be retrogressive. It must continue to enhance and build on those gains we have made over the years. And, therefore, savings to be realized from reform measures should be channelled — and rightly so — to “the Organization’s highest priority, alleviating poverty and enhancing the prospects of developing countries”. [A/51/950, letter of transmittal] The recent reform proposals by the Secretary-General are, in our view, part of an ongoing process. We must not resist change; nor should we lose sight of the long-term implications of our actions of today. We need to do it now, but we must do it right. In his address to the General Assembly, the current Chairman of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), President Robert Mugabe, reiterated the position of the OAU on the reform and democratization of the Security Council. Let me supplement his remarks by emphasizing that Namibia is opposed to categories of permanent membership of the Security Council. As we continue to seek ways and means to reform the Security Council, we must not replace a speedy process with haste. Hence, the Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council and Other Matters Related to the Security Council should be the forum to search for and reach a consensus on the matter. What besets the United Nations today is not merely an unmanageable structure. The Organization is subjected to financial limitations. Reform cannot supplant the Charter obligation of Member States to honour their financial obligations. Voluntary contributions, therefore, must not be seen as a means to pave the way towards resolving the current financial crisis. My Government welcomes the idea of the establishment of a revolving credit fund, capitalized at a level of up to $1 billion through voluntary contributions or through other appropriate means which may be agreed. However, our Organization can execute its mandate to the fullest only when all Member States equip it to do so. We all must honour our assessed contributions in line with international agreements, not in line with unilateral decisions. The creation of a development account is viewed by my Government as a good idea. However, all mandated programmes and activities should be implemented, including reimbursement to troop contributors for United Nations peacekeeping operations. Furthermore, any reduction in posts must not compromise the effectiveness of the United Nations; more important, it must be carried out on the basis of geographical equity. Since 1996 we have witnessed positive progress in the field of disarmament. A Comprehensive Nuclear-Test- Ban Treaty (CTBT) has been concluded, and the Chemical Weapons Convention has come into force. In addition, an agreement was reached by the parties to the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and on Their Destruction to intensify efforts to negotiate verification provisions. However, despite these developments, nuclear weapons and their proliferation continue to be a cause of concern to the international community. With the conclusion of the CTBT, it is still our hope that serious negotiations will begin on the elimination of nuclear weapons. In this connection, we call upon the nuclear-weapon States to undertake, within the shortest possible time frame, to carry out effective nuclear disarmament measures. The total elimination of these weapons is the only genuine guarantee for non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons. Namibia is among many countries still facing the bitter experience of the effects of landmines, which have claimed and continue to claim human lives, and which pose serious obstacles to the reconstruction and development process. Thus, we support the international community’s move towards a total ban on the use of anti- personnel landmines and its continuous and tireless efforts across the globe to clear minefields. In this connection, we welcome the treaty recently concluded in Oslo, Norway, to ban anti-personnel landmines. Namibia is ready to sign the treaty in Ottawa. Let me express our profound gratitude and great 5 appreciation to those countries which are supporting Namibia’s demining activities, thus enhancing our development prospects. Our world is merging into one globally encompassing dynamo of change, or so it is perceived, characterized by inter alia economic integration. Are developing countries to become victims or beneficiaries of this process? Suffice it to emphasize that globalization and liberalization are not ends in themselves. They are means to greater efficiency, higher growth and increased welfare. It is common knowledge that the much talked about benefits of globalization and liberalization of the world economy continue to elude the majority of developing countries, particularly those in Africa. At the same time, while the debt burden continues to hamper many of the development efforts of our economies, official development assistance is on the decline. Instead, new and innovative ideas for generating funds for globally agreed commitments and priorities are being brought into play, some of which are clearly shifting the overall burden of financing development to the developing countries which already have limited financial resources. Namibia is strongly of the view that if the twin process of globalization and liberalization of the world economy is to benefit all countries, developing countries must have free access to world markets without conditions. It should not be a matter of the survival of the fittest. The limitations of many of our countries to compete should be compensated for by maintaining preferential treatment of developing countries. Much has been said about global development trends, of Africa’s efforts to carve a larger slice of the world economic cake, of our striving for economic empowerment and competitiveness, of our movement towards regional integration and harmonization, and of our efforts to put in place an enabling environment for trade, investment and capital flows on a national and regional level. At the same time, at the recent International Monetary Fund Economic Forum it was said that over the decade spanning 1985 to 1995 developing countries increased their share of world trade from 23 per cent to 29 per cent. They also diversified their trade linkages in response to major changes in trade and exchange regimes in the direction of more outward-looking and open policies. While it is stated that developing countries have more than doubled their real per capita income over the last 30 years, in reality only Asia has made relative progress; thus, the gap in living standards between the advanced economies and Africa continues to widen. The distribution of gains from increases in both trade and foreign direct investment remains very skewed, with a few getting the most. Africa still participates in world trade with foreign direct investment flows of less than 4 per cent. Therefore, as we continue to welcome the bright projected global outlook, we should not lose sight of the wide divergence across nations and regions. Today, for many African nations, global optimism coexists with local pessimism. There is a need, then, to open and expand our economies, to increase our competitiveness, to empower our people and to improve their well-being. To this end, the international community should support Africa’s need to effectively participate in multilateral trade discussions, with a strengthened capacity for negotiations in such forums. Full implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa is one effective way of addressing Africa’s limited capacity to take advantage of the global outlook. We in the Southern African Development Community (SADC) have long recognized that the path to globalization is regional integration. To equalize power relationships in the global setting, regional integration is a strategic imperative. To this end, all the members of SADC have embarked upon a common strategy to promote the region as an attractive trading and investment partner, and they are actively working towards: deeper economic cooperation and integration on the basis of balance, equity and mutual respect, providing for cross- border investment, trade and movement of production factors and services; common economic, political and social value systems, enhancing entrepreneurship, competitiveness, democracy, good governance, rule of law, human rights and the eradication of poverty; and strengthened regional solidarity, peace and security. While admittedly our region has not yet attracted a high share of foreign direct investment, political and economic risks have greatly reduced over the past years, and increasing trade and investment flows are being witnessed. Namibia, as a member of SADC, believes in the region’s potential, the opportunities for joint development and the power of collective advocacy. This will enhance efforts towards the ideals and objectives of the African Economic Community. Together we can strengthen our 6 productivity and competitiveness in the global economy. By pooling our resources and skills, we can create a far greater market for all of us than any of our nations has. For the accelerated development process of developing countries to take place, a strong industrial base is indispensable. In this regard, we continue to underscore the role of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), which is an agency with a clear, vital and indispensable mission. UNIDO has successfully carried out its reform, and this should be recognized and supported. At this juncture, let me express Namibia’s great appreciation to the Government of the United Kingdom for its decision to rejoin UNIDO. We have no doubt that this exemplary decision will be rightly emulated by other Member States. This year during the month of June major events were witnessed here at the United Nations. The adoption of the Agenda for Development and the review and appraisal of the implementation of Agenda 21 are cases in point. We view the outcome of these two events as complementary. Neither replaces the other. The commitments we made in Rio remain valid and need full — not selective — implementation. The United Nations has a major role to play in promoting international cooperation. It took the Ad Hoc Open-ended Working Group of the General Assembly on an Agenda for Development four years to reach consensus. Mobilization of resources for its implementation is of the utmost importance, for those who are to benefit from it cannot wait another four years. Development must be one of the centrepieces of United Nations activities. In this context, we welcome the proposal to appoint a Deputy Secretary-General. In our view the Deputy Secretary- General should concentrate on United Nations development activities. Namibia is one of those countries seriously affected by desertification and drought. In a few days, the first Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa, will take place in Rome. We underscore the utmost importance of establishing an independent financial mechanism to make arrangements conducive to the implementation of this Convention. To this end, we look forward with great expectation to the outcome of the first Conference of the Parties. Namibia supports the establishment of an international criminal court, with its jurisdiction being limited to “hard-core crimes”: crimes of genocide, serious violations of the laws and customs applicable in armed conflict and crimes against humanity. The principle of complementarity should be clearly spelled out in the statute. The international criminal court must complement and not supplant national criminal jurisdictions. A balance between the international criminal court and the national jurisdictions will therefore have to be struck in order to make the international criminal court fully functional. We are two years from the end of this century and the beginning of a new millennium. We have the opportunity to reflect on how we have fared in elevating the human race to greater heights. In this context, my Government would like to congratulate both Mrs. Mary Robinson, the new High Commissioner for Human Rights, and Mr. Olara Otunnu, the Secretary-General’s Special Representative to study the impact of armed conflict on children. Both of them have challenging responsibilities to assist Member States in very important but difficult tasks. In 1998 we will commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The Government and people of Namibia have embraced the Universal Declaration of Human Rights inasmuch as our Constitution embodies those principles and values that we were denied for so long and that we will cherish and pass on to new generations to come. Furthermore, 1998 will mark the fifth anniversary of the World Conference on Human Rights. This will be a time to reflect and to rededicate ourselves to our collective responsibility to save successive generations from the scourge of massive and grave human rights violations. It is also our responsibility to redouble our efforts towards the implementation of the Declaration on the Right to Development as well as to pay equal attention to the implementation of economic, social and cultural rights. No country has been spared the onslaught of drug trafficking and the alarming geographical spread of organized crime in its various forms. This undermines our development process and threatens human rights and fundamental freedoms, and thus causes regression in the quality of our lives. In this context, my Government supports the convening of the special session of the General Assembly on the question of drugs next year. This will provide the international community with an 7 ample opportunity to reaffirm its commitment to combat this global problem. Time and again we have all affirmed the link between peace and development. In this context, we are pleased that the United Nations has decided to discuss the concept of the “culture of peace” during this session of the General Assembly. We support the current efforts before the United Nations for a comprehensive strategy to be adopted towards this end. My delegation remains deeply perturbed by the situation in Angola. In this regard, we feel strongly that the phasing out of a United Nations presence in Angola must hinge on the situation on the ground. The United Nations Observer Mission in Angola was established to keep the peace in that country. It should not break the fragile peace through premature withdrawal. In this respect, the commitment of the parties to the full and unconditional implementation of the Lusaka Protocol is paramount. UNITA must therefore rise above the present impasse to contribute to a final and lasting solution to the problem in Angola. We commend the Secretary-General’s efforts in the Republic of Congo, and we are keeping our hopes alive for a speedy resolution to that problem. We welcome the new Government in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and we call upon the international community to render all necessary assistance to the Government and people of that country as they embark on the road to national reconciliation and reconstruction. After seven years of tragic civil war in Liberia, my delegation hails the peace which has finally dawned in that country. It is our hope that it will be a lasting peace. We salute the people of Liberia for their good sense. Peace cannot sustain itself. It is therefore incumbent upon the international community to support the Government and people of Liberia in their national reconciliation and reconstruction efforts to keep and consolidate peace and stability. Our hearts bleed when we consider the situation that has unfolded in Sierra Leone, which has been responsible for the regression of the reconstruction efforts in that country. The Government of the Republic of Namibia condemned the coup d’état in Sierra Leone then and does so now. Namibia calls for the continued isolation of the military regime in that country. We therefore welcome the appointment of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General. We note with satisfaction the progress made during the recent negotiations between the parties on Western Sahara. We encourage them to continue to search for a final solution to that problem. We reiterate our call for the early exercise by the Sahraoui people of their right to self-determination on the basis of a free, fair and transparent referendum in Western Sahara, under the joint supervision and control of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity (OAU). We reiterate the concern of the OAU about the conflict between Libya and the United States of America and the United Kingdom over the Lockerbie tragedy. While we regret the loss of life as a result of this tragedy, other innocent people continue to suffer as a result of the subsequent sanctions imposed on Libya. We call for an urgent solution to this problem. The Government of Namibia has reiterated on many occasions that the United States of America and the Republic of Cuba should start to walk the distance of 90 miles towards reconciliation and peaceful coexistence. We hoped to see our aspirations come about. However, these aspirations are being shattered by the new escalation in the economic, commercial and financial embargo against Cuba through the application of the Helms-Burton Act. Notwithstanding this, we shall keep our hopes alive. The construction of new settlements in the occupied territories of Palestine is not conducive to peace in the Middle East. We therefore call on the Government authorities in Israel to desist from such acts. Peace in the Middle East is in the interest of all parties concerned. We call on the parties to resume negotiations. Let me conclude by stating the obvious: Peace is cheaper than war. Let us all unite our efforts to make the world a haven of peace. ﻿The unanimous election of the President of the fifty-second session of the General Assembly of the United Nations was a tribute not only to his outstanding diplomatic qualities, but also to his country, Ukraine — with which the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros fully intends to have good relations of friendship and cooperation. I would like to associate myself with the previous speakers in extending to him, on behalf of my delegation, our warm congratulations and to wish him all success in carrying out his noble task. Allow me also to pay a well-deserved tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Razali Ismail, for the dedication and skill with which he guided the work and shouldered the task of President of the fifty-first session of our General Assembly. I would also like to take this opportunity to extend my sincere congratulations to our new Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, on his outstanding election. I would like to express our deep gratitude to this illustrious advocate of the ideals of peace, solidarity and justice for his unswerving dedication to the service of our institution. His experience in international affairs, together with his personal qualities, clearly guarantees that the United Nations will be given new impetus as it faces the new challenges confronting it. 7 At a time when we are meeting in the General Assembly to assess — as is our custom — the work carried out by our Organization in the areas of peacekeeping, the strengthening of international cooperation, the development of reforms required if the United Nations is to adapt to the needs of our time, we are obliged to note that the world continues to fall prey to numerous types of threats, tensions and ills of all sorts. Thus, it is obvious that our Organization must play a very critical and primary role. However, in this period of globalization — of the obvious and irrevocable interdependence of nations, democracy, good governance and transparency in the management of public affairs — our Organization remains the target of those who wish to minimize and limit its role by preventing it from paying still greater attention to the problems of poor and disadvantaged countries. It goes without saying that this concept is not conducive to promoting the atmosphere of detente in international relations that has been awaited for so long. Bearing in mind the noble tasks for which the Organization was founded, in particular the building of a just, peaceful and better integrated world society, it would be wise and reasonable for the major concerns of our Organization, since the end of the cold war, to be mobilization for disarmament and the search for solutions that can encourage the development policies of States, cooperation and international solidarity. The trials and tribulations of history have once again placed my country, the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros, on the first page of international news. The tragic events of the last few months are the result of an unprecedented social and economic crisis which is battering my country. Indeed, counted among the least developed countries, over the last few years the Comoran State has witnessed a deterioration of the markets for its export products — vanilla, cloves, perfume oils, and so forth — due to strong international competition. The poor sales of these products, which are the major sources of revenue for the State, and therefore for a majority of the inhabitants of the Comoros, have been compounded by the devaluation of our currency, without appropriate accompanying measures. This economic state of affairs has only served to exacerbate the already poor and vulnerable condition of a considerable sector of the population of the Comoros. Here I have in mind the galloping unemployment and the rising curve of poverty. In this situation, which is of concern in many ways, the authorities of the Comoros, together with the Bretton Woods institutions, decided on a number of measures aimed at balancing State revenues and expenditures. These include a reduction in gross salaries; the privatization of State firms; a reduction of the operational State budget; and the launching of projects to generate revenue and permanent jobs. These new guidelines were put forth on the eve of the free and democratic elections organized under the aegis of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), the European Union and the United Nations. On 16 March 1996, these elections carried President Mohamed Taki Abdoulkarim to the highest post in my country. Indeed, the catastrophic situation inherited by the newly elected President required the swiftest possible start of political, economic and social reforms capable of meeting the numerous challenges impeding the building of a democratic, prosperous and united society. Among the efforts made along these lines by the new political authorities of the Comoros, we could mention the regular payment since 1997 of State officials' salaries. However, despite this new impetus, the discontent spawned by a series of crises and tragedies in my country's recent history finally caught up with the harsh socio-economic facts of life of the Comorian people. Expressed in different ways, in line with the susceptibilities on all sides, the rumblings of this discontent got out of bounds on the Comorian island of Anjouan. Indeed, since March 1997, various movements — both trade union and political — coalesced into an organization whose activism threatens the very heart of the Comorian State. From the illegal occupation of public buildings to the trampling underfoot of the national flag, these factions sowing terror on the island of Anjouan used all kinds of methods to provoke the central power. These outrageous actions, which have been unanimously condemned by the international community, were exacerbated by the proclamation of a pseudo- independence of the island of Anjouan. Despite all these acts of provocation, the President of the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros, 8 determined to preserve peace and national unity, opted for the path of dialogue and agreed action. Within this framework, the Government of the Comoros requested the mediation of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) with a view to achieving a peaceful settlement of this domestic crisis. As a result of the discussions initiated by the OAU mission, certain decisions, accepted by all sides, were taken designed to facilitate a return to normalcy — in particular, the withdrawal of military reinforcements, the provision to the island of vitally necessary foodstuffs, the organization of examinations at the end of the school year, and so on. The response to this spirit of reconciliation by the separatists was the continuation of one act of escalation after another; they occupied the presidential residence at Hombo, in Anjouan and levied direct and indirect taxes on the island, having emptied the coffers of the State. Faced with such an exacerbation of the situation, which was a violation of the authority of the State, the Government was obliged to send a military mission to Anjouan to re-establish public and Republican order. This mission, which began on the morning of 2 September, had nearly achieved its goal by 4 September, without bloodshed. But the subsequent turn of events led the President of the Republic, still determined to preserve civil order, to take the necessary emergency measures under article 20 of the Constitution of the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros, dealing with full powers. This is why, acting under this Article, a State transition commission was appointed and given the prerogatives normally given members of the Government: to carry on the conduct of current affairs of State; to continue the indispensable negotiations begun with the OAU, the United Nations, the League of Arab States and all other bodies involved in the search for a solution to the crisis afflicting the country; to implement and give concrete form to solutions agreed on, in consultation with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF); to prepare for signature the programme of adjustment with the Bretton Woods institutions; and to prepare the final procedures for ultimate signature of the eighth European Development Fund, in collaboration with the European Union and the countries of the Asian, Caribbean and Pacific region. During this transitional stage it should be possible to restructure institutions with a view to giving the islands of the Republic broad management autonomy and more active participation in the process of development in the islands of the Comoros as a whole. At a time when my country's territorial integrity remains threatened, at a time when arbitrary separatist actions are again battering my country, I should like from this rostrum to launch a heartfelt appeal to the entire international community to assist the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros to eradicate the ills which are destroying it, namely underdevelopment and destabilization. While it is true that we must first and foremost count on our own strengths, the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros also knows that it can count on the United Nations, our Organization, with its specialized agencies, including the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Children’s Fund, the World Health Organization and the Food and Agriculture Organization. The Comoros also knows it can count on OAU, the League of Arab States, the Organization of the Islamic Conference, and the European Union. We can only reiterate here our full confidence in, and deep gratitude for, the tireless and determined efforts they have unceasingly made to ensure the economic development of, and peace and security for, the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros. After this broad overview of the terrible events which my country is enduring, we are obliged to note that, today, more than ever before, the question of underdevelopment remains the major source of threats to peace and international security. While we recognize that on the threshold of the third millennium our Organization remains the guarantor of the emancipation of peoples and the progressive elimination of poverty, it is also incontestable that the daily struggle with hunger, malnutrition and illiteracy and the problem of ensuring good health for everyone are challenges to our collective conscience. What can more significantly illustrate the will of our institution to eradicate these scourges than the series of conferences which have been held throughout the past decade? I have in mind the New York World Summit for Children, the Rio Conference on Environment and Development, the Vienna World Conference on Human 9 Rights, the Cairo International Conference on Population and Development, the Copenhagen World Summit for Social Development, the Beijing Fourth World Conference on Women, the Istanbul Conference on Human Settlements, and the Rome World Food Summit. All these conferences aroused great hopes in all of mankind but their effects are still in an embryonic stage, particularly for the developing, least developed and island countries. The hopes born of these international meetings are like a distant horizon that seems to recede as one gets nearer to it. The Government of the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros reaffirms its support for the reforms recommended for our Organization, in particular those relating to the enlargement of the Security Council, since our evolving world has taken on new contours. These include new forms of violence, and our current means of dealing with them seems increasingly inadequate and unsuitable. The strengthening and maintenance of peace within States is today a new concern of our Organization, confronted as it is by civil wars, genocide, ethnic cleansing, terrorism, mercenaries and all forms of transnational crime. The new international political landscape is, to be sure, a result of the new forms of tension, which tend to overshadow some of the conflicts well known to our Organization. Since horrors know no limits, the Comoros Government is still concerned by the resurgence of violence in the Middle East, which has had a negative effect on the dynamism that had been set in motion by the signing of the Oslo agreements between the Palestinians and the Israelis. Thus the provocations by the new Israeli authorities, the continuation of the settlement policy, the closing off of Palestinian territories, the demolition of houses, and the arbitrary arrests all furnish eloquent proof of the impediments to the peace process. The new conflagration in that part of the world requires the international community to redouble its vigilance so as to ensure the peoples of the subregion the right to peaceful coexistence, for which one of the prerequisites is respect for the right of the Palestinians to a free and independent State. Along the same lines, the occupation of part of Lebanese national territory by foreign troops is a serious threat that every day delays the national reconciliation of a long-suffering people that continues to seek stability. From East to West, from North to South, other conflicts with various motivations continue to rage and pose serious threats to international peace and security. While it is true that it has been possible to find the beginnings of solutions thanks to the perseverance of our Organization, it remains no less true that other solutions which have been advocated have proved of limited value. The pictures of desolation, exposing the sufferings endured by countries subject to economic embargoes, lead us to question the effectiveness of a solution that first and foremost punishes vulnerable and innocent populations. Africa unfortunately has not been spared the cycle of violence, despite the resolution of certain conflicts that had long plunged this continent into fratricidal wars. Other hotbeds of tension remain, and Africa therefore continues to be at the forefront of the international community’s concerns. In the Great Lakes region, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Sudan and Somalia continue to be theatres for bloody and tragic events. Faced with all these situations of crisis and conflict, my Government unreservedly supports the initiatives underway to achieve negotiated settlements. As for Sierra Leone, the Comorian Republic most firmly condemns the violent coup against the leaders of Sierra Leone, whom the people of that country — wishing to break with the practices of a bygone age — legally and democratically chose. As two sides of the same coin, at the international level, political and economic situations remain closely linked. Thus this gloomy view of the international political landscape is made even darker by the disheartening international economic environment. Despite the priorities and objectives set forth by the new development strategies, we are obliged to note that the results are less than expected. But we venture to hope that the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative on Africa, which recently became a supplement to the New Agenda, will provide the impetus to speed up Africa’s integration into the international system of trade. Under this system, small States continue to experience reduced prices for their raw materials, and their burden of debt is becoming ever more unbearable. 10 The Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros, a small island State and one of the least developed States, shares the plight of those who are excluded from the international market. For, in addition to limited natural resources and the high cost of international transportation, it suffers from other political and structural restraints, which are slowing down its socio-economic development. Given the virtually chronic instability that has characterized the recent history of the Comoros, the Comorian people are obliged to ask whether they have the right to peace and the right to life. The Comorian people remain convinced that the search for a just and lasting solution enabling it to embark on a path of harmonious socio-economic development necessarily hinges on a final settlement to the question of the Comorian island of Mayotte, which is under French administration. I reserve the right to speak on this subject during the debate. For there can be no doubt that the present events in my country are a corollary to the incomplete decolonization and to the socio-economic crisis from which the Comorian people have suffered. In conclusion, I associate myself with previous speakers in extending to the brotherly and friendly Government and people of Indonesia condolences on the crash of the aircraft that claimed so many lives, as well as our profound grief at the disaster that their country has suffered as a result of the fires that are devastating their forests.  ﻿It is a great honour for me to address this great Assembly in my capacity as President of the Republic of Paraguay. I take this opportunity to express my deepest thanks to the President of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko. Also, I would note the excellent work done by Ambassador Razali Ismail, who so efficiently guided the work of the last session. In addition, I should like to extend my best wishes to Mr. Kofi Annan, in connection with his responsibilities as he exercises his functions as Secretary-General of the Organization. For the people of Paraguay, throughout the long struggle to acquire and strengthen their democratic institutions, the United Nations has always been a universal forum that ensures the free debate of ideas and the participation of all the peoples of the world, without exclusion or discrimination, the vital issues involving development, equity, the maintenance of peace and the preservation of the environment. Because of the great importance my country attaches to this forum, we recognize the urgent need to support the institutional reform of the United Nations by strengthening the General Assembly and democratizing the Security Council — adding both permanent and non- permanent members — so that this institution will be able to respond appropriately to the new challenges facing the international community. Last August last I had the great honour of chairing in Asunción the eleventh summit of the Heads of State and Government of the Permanent Mechanism for Consultation and Policy Coordination — the Rio Group — the members of which are Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Guyana, Honduras, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay and Venezuela. There a Declaration was adopted on the strengthening of the United Nations and the reform of Security Council, stressing certain principles and guidelines that I shall now describe. The Declaration of Asunción expresses, first, full support for multilateralism, sovereign equality of States and steadfast respect for the rule of law. Second, it expresses support for the Secretary- General’s initiative in putting forward a broad programme for reform, presented on 16 July of this year, particularly reforms designed to strengthen the effectiveness of the Secretariat and to emphasize activities to promote economic and social development. Third, it notes the relevance of the process of increasing the membership of the Security Council and to reforming it to correct the imbalances in its current membership, improve its decision-making mechanisms, make it more transparent so that it will reflect in a more legitimate and representative manner the overall membership of the Organization. Fourth, it states that, because of its legal traditions and contribution to the cause of peace, the Latin American and Caribbean region should be given special consideration in any proposal to increase the membership of the Security Council. Fifth, it expresses the conviction that reform of the Security Council must respect the principles of equitable geographical distribution and the sovereign equality of States, and that any reform that entails discrimination by developed countries against developing countries would be unacceptable. Sixth, it expresses the ideal of moving towards the total elimination of the veto and, as a first step, limiting its use to actions taken under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter. Seventh, it expresses the importance of transparency in management and decision-making in the Security Council and increasing the number of open meetings and orientation meetings at which the Secretary-General or his special representatives present reports. Eighth, it considers that the increase in the Security Council’s membership, the reform of its working methods and the question of the veto are integral parts of Council reform and must be addressed in the same agreement. Ninth, it expresses the explicit resolve of our Governments to continue to participate actively in the Working Group in order to reach general agreement on this matter. Let me say once again that this increase in the permanent and non-permanent membership of the Council must necessarily envisage the presence of Latin America and the Caribbean and other geographical groups without any form of discrimination whatsoever. In this connection, Paraguay reaffirms its support for permanent membership for Brazil, Germany and Japan. It is also important to note that the process of reforming the Organization must include a plan to eliminate unnecessary expenditures and an attempt to merge programmes designed to further the development of our peoples, which will lead to an optimum utilization of available resources as well as to the elimination of duplication in the use of human, technical or economic resources. The serious financial problems of the United Nations deserve sincere and determined consideration. I am pleased to say that my country has always, in so far as it has been able, honoured its international commitments, aware that the Organization’s proper functioning requires the appropriate and equitable distribution of its administrative costs among all Member States. This moment in history is indeed a very special one. Alliances are now being replaced by complementarity. Isolationism and confrontation have given way to globalization and cooperation. We no longer speak of rivalry and struggle but, rather, of honest and creative competition. The asymmetries in the world order that have historically meant that some nations have been subordinate to others are now themselves being subordinated to this influx of solidarity and mutual assistance. It is of course true that many serious conflict areas continue to exist, but Paraguay is pleased to note the commendable efforts that the United Nations has made in the maintenance of peace in various areas of tension, and we have followed closely the Organization’s initiatives in such new areas of conflict as Cambodia and Sierra Leone, for whose peoples my country most sincerely wishes the immeasurable benefits of peace and harmony. We have also followed with keen interest the disturbing developments in the Middle East situation, and we urge the parties there to redouble their efforts to seek a lasting and stable peace. We warmly welcome the actions taken by the mediating nations, which untiringly continue to participate in all negotiations. With regard to the particular case of the Republic of China on Taiwan, Paraguay welcomes the attitude adopted by that country’s Government and expresses its hope that 2 there will be movement towards reconciliation and that it will be possible to resolve the differences with the People’s Republic of China. In keeping with the principle of the universality of the United Nations, all States that meet the requirements set forth in the Charter have the right to seek admission or membership. In this respect, we believe that it would be advisable to reconsider General Assembly resolution 2758 (XXVI), which completely denies the 21 million inhabitants of the Republic of China on Taiwan the fundamental right to participate in international organizations and their activities. The challenges of peace, security and equilibrium are more relevant to us today than ever before, and they are an absolute imperative for building a world that guarantees development to nations in a context of universal harmony. On the crucial issue of world disarmament, allow me to reiterate Paraguay’s position of support for United Nations efforts in this sphere. My country welcomes optimistically the preparatory work for the Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) to be held in the year 2000, hoping that by then the Treaty will have become universal. That Treaty, the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test- Ban Treaty, the efforts of States to reduce their arsenals and the establishment of new nuclear-weapon-free zones are all important elements that will help prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons and eventually achieve general and complete nuclear disarmament. True to its pacifist principles, the Republic of Paraguay has been following the Ottowa process with great interest. We recently took part in the Oslo Diplomatic Conference, which adopted the definitive text of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on Their Destruction, and we supported the majority position of the principal States to seek appropriate and effective legal mechanisms to prohibit the manufacture, use and distribution of the cruel devices of death and pain that are anti-personnel landmines. We congratulate the international community on that decisive step, and we reaffirm our unswerving decision to sign the Convention. We urge other Governments to do the same without any doubt or delay, so as to ensure its earliest possible entry into force. I should also like to reaffirm my country’s unswerving commitment to continue the struggle against terrorism, a destabilizing force that negates human rights and threatens to undermine the very foundations of security in our regions. It is fitting here to stress that Paraguay, along with the entire international community, is concerned about the growth of drug trafficking. We therefore firmly reiterate the Paraguayan people’s determination to combat that scourge and its resolve to take integrated and concerted action, within the context of international cooperation and in conjunction with producing, transit and consuming countries. In this connection, I am pleased to inform the Assembly that in October 1996 my country’s Parliament, at the initiative of the Executive, adopted a law that establishes norms and punishments for the crime of laundering money or goods derived from illicit traffic in narcotics, psychotropic substances or dangerous drugs, thereby significantly improving the legal framework for combating such crimes head on. On 10 December 1998 we shall celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the proclamation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, a major landmark in the history of humankind and its endless struggle to ensure dignity and reciprocity among human beings. Much of what we have achieved along the way has been the product of blood and pain, but with due satisfaction we can now confirm that the principles and objectives of the Declaration are increasingly being put into effect and that the concept of a State based on the rule of law is gradually becoming part of our national realities. Moreover, the new culture of democratic solidarity has managed convincingly to combat any aspirations for a return to anachronistic times in our political history characterized by authoritarianism and the denial of human rights. For Paraguay, the road to freedom and the establishment of an institutional basis which sits well with our republican ideals has been long. During this journey, my Government has helped make the dream of every Paraguayan a reality: the establishment of a system guaranteeing full freedom and a strengthened democracy allowing the peaceful transfer of the presidential mandate to another candidate, elected by the people, who will take up the office of President of the Republic in August 1998. 3 This is in keeping with the undeniable achievements of the World Conference on Human Rights held in Vienna in 1993, which reaffirmed the universality and indivisibility of human rights, while recommending that greater attention be paid to the links between democracy, development and the satisfaction of the basic needs of the most disadvantaged sectors of the population. My Government has therefore tried to strengthen the interrelationship between democracy, development and human rights, thus combining these democratic achievements, through a plan for social action designed to create opportunities so that all citizens, through their own efforts, can enjoy all the benefits of human development. Obviously, a central feature of democratic governance is concern for social problems. If our democracies do not adapt to these new realities, not only will they be impossible to govern, but they will remain on the sidelines of history. Even worse, that all the sacrifices made to strengthen our institutions may have to yield to populist and Messianic pressures. I am pleased to state today that my Government has been able to lay the foundations for true development, without making any Messianic promises or pandering to the populists. I should highlight the significant progress made in the institutional framework of this process, with electoral reform that has enabled us to move satisfactorily through all the stages of the democratic schedule. Equally historic is the balance achieved in civil and military relations, following the successes of April 1996, when popular pressure and the enormous weight of solidarity on the continent thwarted attempts to take us back to outdated forms of autocracy. I am convinced that our fledgling democracy has gathered new strength since those events and that it will be an insuperable obstacle to any attempts to bring down our institutions. Furthermore, the changes to the administration of justice, with a multiparty Supreme Court, prevent any manipulation or distortion of the mechanisms laid down by the Constitution and the laws of the Republic. Management by parliament has become part of the process of joint cooperation in government, and this has been an enriching experience in the democratic life of the country. Paraguay has a young population which is eager to learn. Current and future generations must be able to equate a free economy with democracy and democracy with a State based on the rule of law, with guarantees for human dignity. During the Eleventh Summit of Heads of State and Government of the Rio Group, which was held in my country, I spoke enthusiastically about the need for a bold strategy to back up the ideals of democracy, sustainable development, equity and integration, and placed particular emphasis on what I called “education for democracy”. The training of young people in this emerging world must include guidelines based on sound ethical and doctrinaire principles. The young must be given experience in how to handle modern technological tools, so that they can deal with the requirements of the new political, economic and social processes which are defining the current and future development of our nations. Further thought needs to be given to the environmental issue. Five years after the Rio Conference, the Republic of Paraguay is building on the increasing awareness of the need to preserve the ecosystem, whose priority nature is reflected in the 1992 Constitution. But I must also emphasize how urgent it is to give full effect to the principle of common but differentiated responsibility put forward in Rio. If it is to be valid, this principle must enjoy the support of richer countries in terms of financial and technical assistance, so that we can put an end once and for all to the “ecology of poverty” which forces many sectors of poor countries to destroy their environmental basis with the simple and tragic aim of ensuring their subsistence from day to day. I have every reason to be satisfied that my Government has been able to institutionalize various instruments to improve the quality of the environment in our country — in particular, the strategy for managing, using, preserving and protecting natural resources in the context of the programme for change in Agenda 21, whose basic aim it is to strengthen the process of sustainable development. Highlights of the new environmental legislation now in force include laws on evaluating the environmental impact, on wildlife, on protected rural areas and on penalties for ecological offences. In the context of the Agenda for Change, we are ratifying international agreements, and taking account of the importance of international cooperation on the environment. With regard to the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in those Countries Experiencing Serious 4 Drought and/or Desertification, particularly in Africa, we submitted the legal instrument for ratifying the instrument in January this year. In this context, the countries that share the Gran Chaco Americano — Paraguay, Bolivia and Argentina — have entered into a new relationship based on a model of cooperation for sustainable development in this vast region. There is an old saying that nobody is so rich that he does not need anything and nobody is so poor that he has nothing to give. In line with those words of wisdom, every Member State of this Organization has given and received. In the particular case of Paraguay, I have to point out that international cooperation has played a decisive role, and its true dimensions can therefore be assessed and appreciated. For this reason, I am particularly grateful to the United Nations, whose presence in Paraguay, through its various specialized agencies, has been and continues to be so positive and dynamic. Just over six years ago the Argentine Republic, Brazil, Paraguay and the Eastern Republic of Uruguay, and later, the Republic of Chile and the Republic of Bolivia, as associated members of the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR), decided to cooperate in a spirit of solidarity in order to gain an increasingly advantageous position in this globalized and dynamic world. In that context we have reached undeniably relevant milestones for the present and future of our peoples. Today, it is recognized that in MERCOSUR we are on the right path, and we are receiving an encouraging message from the outside world concerning our integration. Our efforts are focused on trying to establish a common market, within a gradual and continuous process in which the basic stages still need to be rounded off, improved and studied in depth. MERCOSUR’s experience is expanding. This is an important regional bloc. We have opened negotiations with the Andean Community and the United Mexican States, and we hope that by the end of this year agreements will be signed allowing for trade preferences in the region. Moreover, MERCOSUR participates in the Free Trade Area of the Americas, and there are proposals to conclude shortly a hemispheric free trade initiative involving the 34 countries of the Americas. MERCOSUR is also expanding towards the European Union. We are making progress in defining political decisions which would encourage the establishment of a free trade zone between the two customs unions. This has been my third address to the General Assembly as President of the Republic of Paraguay. I am here today to reconfirm on behalf of my country — a founding Member of the United Nations — our commitment to the lofty ideals that inspire us. Our Organization needs to be adapted and reformed so as to be able to respond effectively to the major challenges of the next millennium. Paraguay undertakes to make its contribution to attaining those noble objectives. At this very special moment I warmly embrace the Assembly, not only in the name of my people, but also on behalf of myself, Juan Carlos Wasmosy, a citizen with faith in democracy, struggled for his country’s freedom and won.  ﻿I am pleased to convey the congratulations of the Zambian delegation to His Excellency Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko on his election as President of the fifty-second session of the United Nations General Assembly. This session is especially important in that it is meant to give impetus to the ongoing negotiations on the future structure of the United Nations through the reform process. We are confident that 19 with his proven diplomatic skills he will steer the deliberations of this session to a successful conclusion. For his predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia, my delegation has only words of admiration and gratitude for the exemplary work he did during the past session of the General Assembly. I wish to express my delegation’s satisfaction with the skilful manner in which the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, has managed the affairs of the Organization since his election last year. Zambia is confident that, given his tested managerial and diplomatic skills, he will effectively manage this Organization as it deals with critical issues confronting the international community today. At the fiftieth session, world leaders gathered here to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations. In celebrating the occasion, we took time to assess the contribution of the United Nations to world peace, economic and social development, and the observance of fundamental human rights, and we reaffirmed our faith in the Organization and agreed to vigorously live up to the objectives of the Charter by strengthening and revitalizing the United Nations system. It is against this background that my delegation believes that the current session of the General Assembly should seize the opportunity to advance the reform process further. In this regard, it is Zambia’s conviction that a comprehensive approach to United Nations reform would, apart from improving efficiency and effectiveness, ensure the implementation of the programmes of action of the global conferences of the 1990s — from Rio to Cairo; Copenhagen to Beijing and Istanbul — which underscored the importance of sustainable development and made it a central theme and a priority. These conferences provided a starting point for a global effort in advancing sustainable development, set goals and defined broad plans of action that provided the basis on which national and international actions could proceed. While we have agreed on the necessity of reforming our Organization, it is important to ask ourselves what we want to achieve through these reforms. In principle, Zambia welcomes and has carefully studied the Secretary-General’s proposals and measures on the negotiations for reform of the United Nations. My delegation expects that the reform process would not only result in a more democratic, efficient, effective and financially stable United Nations, but also have a significant impact on economic and social development. Zambia would like to see the development mandate of the United Nations given priority and prominence in these reforms. Related to this reform process is the pressing issue of the critical financial situation of the United Nations. It is our view that this state of affairs is the major limiting factor undermining the ability of the United Nations to deal adequately with its mandates in many areas. We would therefore like to see arrears owed to the Organization paid in full, on time and without preconditions. One of the key components of the reforms of the United Nations is the reform of the Security Council. We demand that the expansion of the Security Council make it more representative and more democratic. This expansion should be at both permanent and non- permanent levels of membership. In this regard, my delegation wishes to state categorically its support for the position adopted by the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the Non-Aligned Movement that the expanded Security Council should have 26 members. Zambia further supports the demand that the regions of Africa, Asia, and Latin America and the Caribbean now deserve seats as permanent members on an expanded Security Council. Africa, commanding nearly 30 per cent of the membership of the United Nations, certainly deserves to have two permanent and three non-permanent seats on the Security Council. My delegation reaffirms its commitment to general and complete disarmament. In this spirit, we would also like to welcome the recent agreement reached in Oslo. Norway, to ban anti-personnel landmines. We hope that all countries of the world will be able to sign the agreement in December this year in Ottawa. International peace and security also continues to be threatened by conflicts around the globe. Africa, in particular, has witnessed many civil wars whose consequences have been devastating. Zambia continues to be concerned about the conflicts in the Great Lakes region of Central Africa, the Republic of Congo, Sudan and elsewhere on the continent. We would like to appeal to the parties to these conflicts to commit themselves to the principle of negotiated and peaceful settlement of disputes. We call upon the international community to provide all necessary assistance for resolving these conflicts at an early stage. 20 In Angola, the civil war has caused some of the worst human suffering. As host to the talks that led to the signing of the Lusaka Protocol, Zambia has a firm desire to ensure that there is lasting peace and security in Angola. However, Zambia is disappointed at the failure of the União Nacional para a Independência Total de Angola (UNITA) to comply with its obligations under the Lusaka Protocol and the provisions of relevant Security Council resolutions. Zambia would like to record its displeasure at UNITA’s intransigence. Zambia, together with the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and other countries, will continue its efforts to promote conditions leading to the establishment of lasting peace and security in Angola. We believe that peace in Angola will enlarge the parameters of peace in southern Africa, which will enable the countries of the region to concentrate their efforts on social and economic development in an environment of democracy. Zambia reaffirms the position of the OAU with regard to the situation in Sierra Leone. In this regard, we appeal to the international community to continue to deny recognition to the military junta in Sierra Leone. We demand that the junta hand power back to the democratically elected Government of Sierra Leone. The Democratic Republic of the Congo has just emerged from a seven-month civil war. We are delighted that the country has now begun to turn its attention to the challenges of reconstruction and development. We thus appeal to the international community to unconditionally assist the new administration in that country in facilitating rehabilitation of infrastructure and capacity-building to consolidate the political and economic stability of the country. We congratulate the people of Liberia on finding peace through the democratic process and also take this opportunity to pay tribute to the Economic Community of West African States Monitoring Group (ECOMOG) for the commendable role it has played in resolving the Liberian conflict. Regarding peacekeeping in Africa, we believe that Africa has the primary responsibility for resolving the conflicts on our continent. It is precisely for this reason that the Organization of African Unity established the Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution, which we hope the international community will fully support. On the economic front, Zambia is gratified to note that sub-Saharan Africa has begun to record positive growth rates, which averaged 5 per cent in 1996, the highest level in 20 years. Much of this success is attributable to the social and economic reforms undertaken by many African countries. However, this positive achievement can be sustained only if poverty, deprivation and marginalization are effectively addressed. Another factor that continues to constrain efforts for sustainable development in many African countries, including my own, is the heavy external debt burden. Zambia welcomes the steps taken by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank to implement the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative. We are, however, gravely concerned about the uncertainties surrounding the funding for the Initiative. We also remain concerned about the proliferation of conditions, in particular the use of non-economic factors in determining access to the Initiative. Zambia believes that the United Nations has a duty to provide leadership in forging international consensus on the crippling external debt problem of developing countries and assisting in the mobilization of new resources for development financing. It is also our expectation that the United Nations will provide leadership in redressing the widening development disparities existing among nations, and addressing the increasing trends towards unfair trading practices and protectionism in international trade, which have had the effect of marginalizing some regions, notably Africa. Zambia is very concerned about the continued decline in official development assistance at a time when the United Nations is dealing with follow-up to recent international conferences on development. There is also increasing evidence of lack of enthusiasm for honouring agreements freely entered into at international conferences. A case in point is the failure by Governments to implement the agreements, commitments and recommendations made at the 1992 United Nations Conference on Environment and Development. The special session of the General Assembly held this past June to review progress in implementation of the Rio agreements found that the rate of implementation of the programme of action has been extremely slow, mainly due to lack of resources. It was also evident that there was a marked lack of political will to ensure the fulfilment of the agreements of the Rio consensus on environment and development. Zambia would therefore 21 like to see, during this session of the General Assembly, progress on the proposal to convene an international conference on the financing of development. As we all are aware, there has been little progress on this proposal since the forty-sixth session of the General Assembly, when it emerged. On the domestic front, we in Zambia have adopted national programmes of action in pursuit of the goals and objectives of the Copenhagen World Summit on Social Development, the Cairo Conference on Population and Development and the Beijing Declaration. In implementing these programmes of action, my Government has targeted the most vulnerable members of our society to enhance the capacity of their involvement in the country’s economic and social life, with a view to raising their standards of living. In this regard, the Government has taken steps to ensure that there is equitable access to quality education by all Zambians by providing universal basic education within the shortest realistic time-frame. A comprehensive programme of health reforms is also under way, and this should also result in the improvement of the health status of our people. The measures and programmes that the Government has undertaken are not, however, sufficient to fully attain the objectives of these programmes of action, mainly due to limited financial resources. We wish to conclude by underscoring the continuing relevance of the United Nations. The case for reform has been made. We owe it to ourselves and to future generations to ensure that we apply ourselves to the task of reform, knowing well that the world needs a United Nations that can be relied upon to act effectively in ensuring peace and security, and in achieving international cooperation in the economic, social, cultural and humanitarian fields, as envisaged in the Charter of the United Nations.  ﻿I wish to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your unanimous election. I am confident that under your leadership this session of the General Assembly is well placed to address the important issues on its agenda. Commendation is due His Excellency Mr. Razali Ismail for the balanced and effective guidance he provided during the just concluded session. My delegation takes this opportunity to offer heartfelt congratulations to our new Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, on his assumption of such a high and noble office. He will no doubt bring fresh insights to bear on the Herculean tasks and problems confronting the United Nations. We wish to indicate our support for his initiatives for reforming the United Nations. In spite of the many achievements of the United Nations, much remains to be done. The world is still plagued by poverty, all manner of diseases — some even defying medical science — terrorism, regional conflict and the menace of drugs. There can be no real peace or security if millions of people go to bed hungry. There can be no comfort if the rich man turns his back on the poor man and treats him as a statistic. It seems as if the moral obligation to help the disadvantaged has been totally abandoned in some quarters. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines remains a very peaceful country, with its cherished democratic institutions intact. Recently our judicial system, which is known historically for its integrity, was put under microscopic examination with a view to discrediting it. The test results reveal a clean bill of health. This painful period in our history has taught us many lessons. We know now that there are friends who will smile with us while plotting our execution. Today it is true to say that might is not right and that a small nation like ours can have the fortitude to withstand attacks even from those who may have the strength of Samson. Our banana pains continue to intensify. The prognosis appears to be very bleak. The recent World Trade Organization (WTO) ruling has left us dazed and helpless. The concept of every man being his brother’s keeper has been shattered.Can we survive? Will our cries for help go unheeded? What about our neighbours? Are they deaf or uncaring? I know it now. Money and greed have been elevated to the status of a religion, and care and concern are now regarded as a vice. Our future is now on a life-support system. However, I am confident that our resourcefulness and faith will see us through. My delegation welcomes the idea of the establishment of a zone of peace in the Middle East. We call on all parties to take urgent and practical steps towards the establishment of such a zone in accordance with the relevant General Assembly resolutions adopted by consensus. We also call for a halt to the distribution and production of conventional weapons, which have caused immense suffering, especially in this century. Recent acts of terrorism have given cause for great concern. Why should innocent people continue to perish? The United Nations Charter provides for the peaceful settlement of disputes. Both sides have rights which must be respected. Violence can never be a solution. Let us put reason before bloodshed. 12 We should not rush to write the obituary for the Middle East peace process. The wounds inflicted are not fatal; the haemorrhaging can be stopped and the process revived. I look forward to the day when peace will break out in that ancient region, when men shall beat their swords into ploughshares and into pruning hooks their spears. Our own hemisphere is not without problems. Our region believes in neighbourly love, and any attempt to inflict pain and unjustified hardship on any of us affects all of us. Those who exert pressure, be it economic or legal, will find no comfort in our bosom. The strategy of diplomatic isolation has failed. It is clear that in the new millennium, we cannot do business as usual. In hemispheric matters, muscular diplomacy should give way to moral suasion. During this year both Suriname and Haiti have become full members of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM). We take this opportunity to welcome them once again. We also note the progress made since the reestablishment of democracy in Haiti, and we urge the international community to continue to offer technical, material and financial help. That will enable the people of that country to deepen the process of democracy and to promote the country’s sustained economic and social development. I would like to take this opportunity to express my sympathy to the Government of Haiti in regard to the recent tragedy at sea. In our region, nature has manifested its mighty force, and the people in Montserrat are now fleeing from an angry volcano that erupts periodically. Our hearts are with the people there, and we have done whatever we can to assist. Efforts to help are continuing at home even as I speak. Let us hope that the full extent of the plight of the people of Montserrat is realized by those who are in a position to make a substantial contribution. Now is the time to stand up and be counted. My delegation welcomes the convening in 1998 of a special session of the United Nations General Assembly dedicated to the fight against the illicit production, sale, demand for and distribution of illicit drugs and psychotropic substances. Those who traffic in this trade can properly be regarded as merchants of death. International cooperation is the only way to combat this menace. I wish at this time to pay tribute to a woman who has died recently and whose name evokes mystic reverence. Her legacy is one of compassion. I speak of Mother Teresa. She embraced the poor, the sick and the suffering, the favoured and the dispossessed. Her life shows that even in this cruel world there are still people who are willing to put others before themselves in unrewarded service. She lived her religion to the fullest. May she rest in peace. It is our hope that the issue regarding Taiwan can be resolved peacefully. We urge those on both sides of the Taiwan Strait to hold discussions and negotiate a peaceful solution in the reunification process to which both sides are committed. We of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines are very grateful for the assistance we have received from Taiwan, and we would hope that the international community would respect its contribution to development and that it may find its place in the international community. My delegation will continue to support the fundamental rights of all peoples to self-determination. We are heartened to see the emergence into sovereign statehood and independence of peoples once under colonial domination or foreign occupation. We reaffirm the inalienable right of peoples of Non-Self-Governing Territories to self-determination. The reform and expansion of the Security Council is of paramount importance as we approach the dawn of a new millennium. My delegation wishes to emphasize that the ongoing discussions on the reform and expansion of the Security Council must take into account the principle of sovereign equality of States and equitable geographical distribution. There is also the need for transparency, accountability and democratization. My delegation has no objection to the inclusion of additional developed countries on the Council as permanent members, but we fully support the proposal that all regions be represented in a permanent capacity, including Latin America and the Caribbean. The reform cannot be handled piecemeal. We will not support any change that does not include Latin America and the Caribbean Community. Expansion of the Council must not and cannot be limited to permanent seats. It is necessary to increase the number of non-permanent seats to give more countries an opportunity to serve on the Council within a relatively shorter time-frame. In addition, we recommend that the regional non-permanent seats be rotated among the countries that are desirous of serving on the Council. 13 In this process we must remember and be guided by the word “democracy”. If this body is to have the moral authority to restore or encourage democracy in some Member States, it must first become fully democratic. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines remains a loyal and dedicated member of the United Nations committed to upholding the noble principles of the Charter. Now more than ever before we must reaffirm our collective respect for the fundamental principles of the Charter. The small nations of the world must receive constant reassurances from the larger nations that their interests will be safeguarded, their sovereignty respected. When we speak of the United Nations, we must project our vision beyond this building. In the end it is our deeds that will count. Yes, it is what we do to the least of our brethren. Promises and statements have no meaning unless they can be translated into action. This body must never be perceived as a gathering of word merchants but, rather, as one of action-oriented men and women. Our planet’s resources are finite, and even the most economically developed States cannot pursue unilateral policies in isolation from the rest of the world. We stand firm in the belief that the United Nations is still the best hope for the world. This hope must be grounded in action, in a firm resolve to act decisively in the best interests of this great institution — indeed in the interest of all humanity and untainted by the narrow national interests that have dogged our path during the last five decades.  ﻿On behalf of the people and Government of El Salvador, I should like to convey to you, Mr. President, our congratulations on your election to preside over this session. To your predecessor, Mr. Razali Ismail of Malaysia, we extend our gratitude for his efforts and initiatives aimed at making progress in the modernization of the United Nations. We commend the Secretary-General for his remarkable work during the first year of his term and, in particular, for the progress made in reforming the Organization. More than five years after the signing of the peace accords in El Salvador, we can state with satisfaction that we have fulfilled and achieved the objectives that we agreed to. The far-reaching changes that have taken place in Salvadoran society have received universal recognition, as they represent one of the most successful undertakings of greatest scope carried out with the support of the Organization. Our Government’s responsibilities and obligations do not end with compliance with the peace agreements, but continue throughout time and space with a view to safeguarding the achievements that we have registered in the areas of democratization and respect for human rights, and also to meet the priority needs of Salvadoran society. We Salvadorans are dedicated to building a new El Salvador, attacking at their root causes of poverty and social marginalization and promoting a fairer and more equitable society. The successful conclusion of the peace processes in Nicaragua, El Salvador and, recently, Guatemala and the establishment of democratic Governments have created a situation conducive to regional stability, transforming Central America into a region of peace, freedom, democracy and development. Central America has made great progress in demilitarization and in the strengthening of civil society, holding free, transparent and pluralist elections; integrating former combatants into national political processes; strengthening democratic institutions and the rule of law; and implementing a development programme whose central focus is the human being. In the face of globalization and the processes of economic openness and regionalization, we need to be even more creative in tackling present and future challenges. For this reason we are reviewing the Central American institutional system so as to make it possible for us better and more effectively to take our place in the new world order. The aspiration of the peoples of Central America to pursue a common destiny through the reunification of our greater nation has always been latent among our peoples. It is becoming increasingly clear that unity is the best road for Central America to take so that it can successfully tackle the challenges of the coming millennium. It was in this spirit that on 2 September we 22 signed the Nicaragua Declaration with a view to speeding up the process of unification. Today we come to share our resolve to pursue political union in Central America. We want the international community and the United Nations to be witnesses to our efforts, and before them we commit ourselves to do all that is within our power to achieve this objective. In order to achieve this goal, we ask that friendly countries and multilateral institutions continue to support us and to provide timely assistance, so that our national and regional efforts can complement one another, and to enable us to have at our disposal an effective mechanism for realizing our aspirations. I should like to comment on issues of far-reaching importance on the agenda of the General Assembly that are vital for the Organization itself. We stand convinced that the principles of the Organization remain valid and that it is a unique, sui generis institution, essential and irreplaceable in the international system, and that its reform is necessary in order to adapt it to the demands of the new international order. With respect to the proposed reforms put forward by the Secretary-General, my Government supports the institutional changes that will be necessary for the Organization efficiently to respond to the common problems faced by our nations. For the United Nations to function better, it must be able to rely on adequate and predictable financial resources. It is the responsibility of Member States to fulfil our financial obligations, which cannot be subject to any kind of conditionality, so as to safeguard the independence, impartiality and credibility of the Organization’s activities. Reform of the Security Council is necessary in order to overcome the imbalances that exist in its current composition. We support an appropriate increase in the number of permanent and non-permanent members, so that the Council will be representative of the number of Members that the Organization now has. These new members should have the same rights and obligations and be designated in conformity with the principle of geographical distribution, so as to include developing countries in both categories. We believe it particularly important to devote attention to the Council’s working methods and procedure so as to ensure that the decision- making process is participatory, democratic and transparent and involves effective coordination among all the organs of the system. The United Nations was created to be universal in nature. Therefore all peace-loving States that accept the obligations enshrined in the Charter should be Members of it. For this reason, we reaffirm our support for the just aspiration of the Republic of China on Taiwan to rejoin the Organization on the basis of the principle of universality, which is the distinguishing mark of the United Nations. In conclusion, I wish to state that the people of Central America are grateful for the work of the United Nations in the process of peacemaking, democratization and development in Central America. We recognize the efforts that the Organization is continuing to make to promote international peace and security by seeking to settle conflicts by peaceful means and in accordance with the principles of international law. On the threshold of a new century, nations are facing tremendous challenges. We invoke the aid of God so that peace, freedom and human values may prevail among the peoples of the earth.   ﻿At the outset, may I congratulate Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko on his election as President of the fifty-second session of the General Assembly and wish him much success in this important and responsible function. I should also like to use this opportunity to thank his predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail, who, with his typical energetic approach, contributed greatly to the success of the fifty-first session. The recently concluded fifty-first session of the General Assembly can certainly be described without exaggeration as one of the key periods in the history of the United Nations. The important reform proposals submitted during its course will, if carried out, result in the most fundamental change in the structure and activities of the United Nations since its foundation. We strongly believe that the Organization will emerge from the reform process reinforced and that this process will increase the importance of the United Nations as a global forum that focuses on the serious problems facing our world today, open to all who wish and are willing to take part. We greatly appreciate the vigour and vision with which the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, has committed himself to the reform efforts. We support the measures he has already taken to make the work of the United Nations Secretariat more effective as well as the package of recommendations he submitted to the General Assembly last July. Whether or not these concrete and effective reform steps are really put into effect now depends on the political will of the Member States. The Czech Republic will make every effort to be most cooperative in this respect. We are glad that the reform efforts of the Secretary- General have met with a favourable response on the part of the Member States. His proposals have been supported also by the 16 Heads of State and Government associated in the Carlsson Group, of which Czech President Václav Havel is also a member. As this Group stated in its declaration of 10 August 1997 on the Secretary-General’s reform proposals, the United Nations has a chance to take a step forward, and this chance should not be missed. As for restructuring the Security Council, the Czech Republic prefers the expansion of both Council-member categories while preserving the Council’s effectiveness and flexibility. We continue to support an increase in the number of permanent members to include Germany, Japan and three other countries representing Africa, Asia and Latin America. My country also advocates expansion of the category of non-permanent seats, including one seat for the Group of Eastern European States. The reform of the Security Council should also result in improving and simplifying the Council’s working methods. My country has actively participated in discussions of this question and has submitted a proposal for a broader interpretation of Article 31 of the United Nations Charter. We are pleased that our proposal has been backed by a number of Member States and believe it will become part of the working methods of the reformed Security Council. It is quite unthinkable to restructure the United Nations without changing its present system of financing. In order to make cost-sharing more equitable it is necessary to change the existing scale of assessments. The new system of contributions to the regular budget and to peacekeeping operations should reflect the real economic capacity of individual Member States. All Member States, without exception, should also duly comply with their financial obligations. For my country, this year is a year of important events. The invitation extended at the Madrid Summit to three Central European countries, including the Czech Republic, to open talks on accession to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), is a key and historic 17 decision which we regard not as a first and last step, but, rather, as the beginning of the process of NATO enlargement. The Czech Republic is convinced that the alliance will in the future invite some other democratic countries. The signing of the Founding Act on Mutual Relations, Cooperation and Security between the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Russian Federation constitutes an important step towards the strengthening of European security. The Czech Republic has noted with satisfaction that the effort of the European Union to further enhance the integration process achieved concrete results at the Intergovernmental Conference in Amsterdam. We welcomed the European Commission’s positive assessment of the Czech Republic as a candidate for European Union membership. We believe that negotiations with the Czech Republic and other candidates for membership can start in the early months of 1998. One of the basic prerequisites for a country’s stability is harmonious relations with its neighbours. This is why we attach great importance to the Czech-German declaration on mutual relations and their future development, signed in Prague in January of this year. By signing this document the two sides confirmed their political will to further intensify all-round bilateral cooperation as an expression of their determination to work jointly on shaping a peaceful future in Europe. In fact, this joint determination and political will is already being transformed into concrete steps in different areas. We are very sensitive to the political problems of our present world, and, within our capacities, participate in their solution. One of the most complicated issues is undoubtedly the conflict in the former Yugoslavia, and particularly in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We support the peace process based on the Dayton Peace Accords and on the London Programme of Action, and consider them the best possible solution to the protracted conflict. It is beyond dispute that one key prerequisite for the success of the peace process is the just punishment of all war crimes committed during the conflict. We also focus our attention on the situation in the Middle East, the region currently being visited by President Havel. The peace process is now in a difficult phase, but its role is irreplaceable. We hope, however, that bilateral talks between the State of Israel and its neighbours will lead to greater stability in the region and eventually result in just and lasting peace for all. The Czech Republic follows with much concern the security and humanitarian situation in certain African countries, in particular in the Great Lakes region, but also in Somalia and Sierra Leone. We fully support the efforts of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity aimed at putting an end to unrest, wars and suffering in Africa. Positive changes taking place in Liberia, for example, fill us with optimism. We believe that the work done by our own military observers in the operations of the United Nations Observer Mission in Liberia has also contributed to this progress. My country wishes to continue to participate in building a global security architecture. Within the United Nations we want to work actively, mainly in the fields of peacekeeping operations, arms control and disarmament. Our military observers, doctors and other medical personnel participate in a number of United Nations peacekeeping operations. A Czech Army battalion has been operating in Bosnia and Herzegovina under NATO command within the multinational Stabilization Force, on the basis of the Security Council mandate. It has been performing its tasks well, and we are pleased that its activities are being viewed positively. The inclusion of the Czech Republic at the beginning of this year in the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations is both a sign of appreciation of our activities in this field and a manifestation of our commitment to participate further in peacekeeping operations and to improve the level of our participation. The Czech Republic has been actively participating in the field of arms control and disarmament. As a non- nuclear-weapon State, we are naturally interested in attaining universality of the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and its strict observance, which, we expect, will lead to the further reduction of nuclear proliferation and will advance the long-term objective of nuclear disarmament. We attach great importance to the sessions of the preparatory committees, and expect that their positive suggestions could set the tone of the Review Conference to be held in the year 2000 towards reinforcing the Non-Proliferation Treaty. The Czech Republic has from the very beginning voiced support for the idea of strengthening the international safeguards system of the International Atomic Energy Agency within the so-called 93 +2 Programme. It was within these efforts that the Czech Republic only a few days ago officially informed the 18 International Atomic Energy Agency’s secretariat of its interest in concluding a supplementary protocol to the safeguards agreement between the Czech Republic and the Agency, as required by the Non-Proliferation Treaty. The majority of Member States of the United Nations last year signed the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, and I am pleased to state that my country was one of the first to ratify it. We welcome the establishment of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. We expect it to effectively control and carry out the verification process, in which we are prepared to participate fully. We are convinced that the Biological Weapons Convention needs more effective control mechanisms. To this end, Czech experts are actively participating in talks on finalizing the verification protocol, which will considerably strengthen this Convention. In the field of conventional weapons, the Czech Republic supports all measures contributing to greater transparency, and has been systematically fulfilling all its obligations concerning notification to the respective registers. At this year’s Brussels Conference on anti- personnel land mines, the Czech Republic joined the so- called Ottawa process, and it is prepared to sign in Ottawa early in December a convention on the complete ban of such weapons. It has been an honour for my country to chair two important United Nations bodies this year. The Economic and Social Council plays a very important role in promoting international cooperation in the economic and social fields. Its reform is therefore very important. The Czech Republic has always stressed the need for better coordination, effectiveness and simplification of the Council’s structure and activities. We also believe that when chairing the Council we have helped shape its new image. We noted promising signs of this new image already during its substantive session in July. One example was the high-level segment with participation of ministers and senior government officials, which proved the growing interest of the Member States in discussions on specific subjects. An informal political dialogue with representatives of United Nations funds and agencies also proved the Council’s ability to serve as a platform for useful and fruitful exchanges of views. The reform and strengthening of the Economic and Social Council should continue. In this respect, we welcome all steps taken to implement resolution 50/227, and above all to further simplify the structure of the Council’s subsidiary bodies. In its priorities, the Czech Republic pays great attention to the protection of human rights as one of the necessary conditions for free development of human society and democracy. We had the honour to chair the Commission on Human Rights in the first year of our membership in this important body. On the basis of this experience, the Czech Republic has been urging the elimination of factors negatively influencing the work of the Commission, and has been seeking new approaches and methods of dealing with individual cases of flagrant violation of human rights. Next year the international community will commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We hope that this event will be an occasion not merely for ceremonial assemblies and declarations, but for presenting concrete results of work in the field of human rights. My country supports all efforts aimed at early establishment of an International Criminal Court, which would create a new system for punishing the most serious crimes of human rights violations and violations of international humanitarian law. The need for such an institution is acute, and the Czech Republic fully supports the convocation of a diplomatic conference in 1998 to adopt and open to signature the convention on the establishment of the court. One of the burning scourges of our world today is the growth of international organized crime and the related problem of drug abuse. This global problem can be solved effectively only through close international cooperation. We believe that the special session of the General Assembly in 1998 will stimulate the strengthening of this cooperation. Another threat hanging over the world is international terrorism. This is a threat which can be neutralized only by the tough and uncompromising attitude of the international community and by effective international cooperation. Every country sincerely interested in security throughout the world must strictly observe and comply with commitments arising from relevant international instruments. The Czech Republic supports every effort aimed at the elaboration of an international convention for the suppression of terrorist bombings. In this respect, my country has also actively participated in the work of the Ad Hoc Committee set up 19 to deal with this problem and believes that the current session of experts will make further progress in the finalization of the draft convention so that it may be adopted and opened to signature as soon as possible. One of the most dynamically developing spheres of international and global cooperation is that of environment and sustainable development. The United Nations has been traditionally working hard in this field. The key, irreplaceable role in this field is played by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the United Nations Commission on Sustainable Development. It seems that UNEP is already on the way out of crisis, although not all the problems are solved by any means. The recent establishment of the high-level committee is undoubtedly a step towards improvement of the governing structure of UNEP and towards stabilization of its programme and budget. In a short time we expect the strengthened UNEP to start a new endeavour to fulfil its mandate. The process of follow-up activities of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development was given a new and strong impulse at the nineteenth special session of the General Assembly. The results of this special session were not unambiguously positive. On the one hand, we welcome the wide support for the promotion of sustainable development and for efforts of Governments and international organizations, further strengthened by complementary activities of non-governmental organizations, national Governments, entrepreneurial circles and other interest groups. On the other hand, however, the session proved that not all of them are prepared to take resolute steps towards achieving sustainable development. The tasks facing the United Nations in the next period are numerous and difficult. However, they have been clearly outlined and can be fulfilled. It also depends on us, Member States, whether and how we will cope with them. It is the results of our joint efforts that will decide not only the fate of the world Organization but also of the world itself on the threshold of the next millennium.  ﻿The success of a session of our General Assembly lies heavily with its President, the chief catalyser and conductor of our work during the session; with the state of affairs left by his predecessor; and, of course, with the capacity of the whole United Nations Organization to implement in a credible, coherent and sustainable way the various decisions, resolutions and recommendations made by the General Assembly. It is therefore a pleasure for me to express to you, Sir, on behalf of the Republic of Madagascar, our warmest congratulations on your election to the presidency of the present fifty-second session of our General Assembly. Please be assured of our support and of our conviction that your proven experience in international affairs is definitely a major asset towards the success of your mission. We would also like to express our gratitude to your predecessor, Ambassador Resale Ismaili, whose commitment during his tenure we admired and whose work and achievements make up a solid foundation on which this and upcoming sessions will build and further construct. Last but not least, I should like to reaffirm our strong praise and encouragement for our Secretary- General and his staff for their highly laudable work on proposed reforms of the United Nations aimed at making our Organization an even more credible and efficient body, capable of meeting the challenge of the next century. It would thus be a matter of legitimate pride to realize at the end of this process that major and positive United Nations reforms would have been achieved under the tenure of a native African Secretary-General. (spoke in French) There is no doubt that the question of United Nations reform, which has been of concern to us more particularly since the middle of July last and which has figured prominently in most of the statements made during the general debate, is not only making the fifty- second session of the General Assembly seem like a hive of feverish activity leading up to major events but also is lending it a special character that will remain in the annals of the Organization because of the importance of the stakes for all of humankind. It is a starting point for this necessary process to find answers to our aspirations for the future of our Organization, following the solemn commitment made here two years ago by our Heads of State and Government, in the framework of the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, to work jointly to promote peace, development, equality, justice and understanding among peoples. This reform process should reflect the changes and profound upheavals that have taken place in the world and that have made it necessary for our Organization to adapt itself and its structures to the new realities of the world in which we live — a world characterized by an upsurge in globalization and by greater interdependence among nations. The free movement of goods, people, capital and information has increased. Technological progress is making it possible to transmit and disseminate ideas, cultures and lifestyles. Some developing countries have undergone rapid economic growth and have become integrated into the dynamic current of the world economy. Others — and unfortunately there are far too many of them — have experienced slow or even negative growth and have been marginalized in the globalization process. Poverty and famine still affect a considerable number of people. The figures speak for themselves: at a time when some people are privileged enough to surf the Internat to do their shopping, 800 million others go hungry every day — that according to a report of the Food and Agriculture Organization at the World Food Summit last November. And that is to say nothing of illness, illiteracy or violence. The basic principles that have given impetus to this process of renewal include good governance, sound management, transparency and the democratization of international relations. In this respect, Madagascar cannot but welcome this innovative approach because it is based on the same values and the same ideals underlying my Government’s quest for social and economic progress, whose goal is to provide a higher standard of living for the Malagasy people in conditions of greater freedom. Indeed, we in Madagascar hope to ensure that the observance of human rights, social justice, participation by all in national development efforts, the implementation of economic reforms and the practice of democracy do not remain mere political slogans but are put into practice. As the representative of a Government born of a democratic change of power seven months ago, I know what I am talking about. At this stage of the considerations presented by our Secretary-General, certain points are noteworthy. Among those I would refer specifically to restructuring, financial reform and the Security Council. With respect to restructuring, it is clear that efforts must be made to merge agencies of the United Nations system in order to ensure improved efficiency and better coordination. An example would be to merge into a single unit in Geneva the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Centre for Human Rights in order to strengthen complementarity in related activities of our Organization. My country believes that we must increase transparency and create a culture of shared savings, which a reform of the Centre’s administration would bring about — this with the aim of avoiding by every possible means the non-observance of democracy, which is the fundamental reason for serious human rights violations throughout the world. Likewise, humanitarian relief, which the United Nations continues to provide to countries that are facing natural disasters, would become more effective with the creation of an office for the coordination of emergency situation efforts, complemented by an appropriate intervention mechanism. I take this opportunity to convey my country’s gratitude to those who did not hesitate to assist Madagascar in our efforts to deal with the locust invasion in the southern part of the island. I would mention in particular the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the United Nations Development Programme, the World Food Programme, the United States Agency for International Development and the World Bank, as well as friendly countries — Japan, Germany, France, Norway and the United Kingdom, among others. My delegation, which welcomes the strengthening of certain United Nations activities and the inclusion of new priorities, agrees with the conclusions of the fifty-third session of the Commission on Human Rights, according to which human rights are inseparable from the promotion of peace, security, economic prosperity and social equity. It reaffirms, therefore, that the work of the United Nations in the area of human rights must be considered as an element of the Organization’s activities in the field of preventive diplomacy, and that United Nations operations to monitor the observance of human rights must promote respect for these rights in order to be able to restore 2 social stability and assist in the reconstruction and recovery of societies following periods of conflict. In this regard, the restructuring of the Secretariat should take into account all approaches to human rights, in accordance with the outcome of the Vienna Conference, which, as we know, proclaimed the interdependence and indivisibility of human rights as well as the promotion of the right to development. My delegation, however, would appeal for greater vigilance on the question of human rights, bearing in mind that on 10 December we shall begin to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and in view of the possible consequences of international oversight of human rights for the sovereignty of States, particularly when this involves monitoring measures and even conditionality, under the guise of humanitarian concerns. Reform must not be reduced to a simple cost-cutting exercise; rather, it must strengthen the role of the Organization and above all enhance its efficiency. Hence Madagascar recognizes the need to strengthen the role of the General Assembly, which we feel must remain the primary forum for States to discuss essential issues of peace, security and development. At a time when the virtues of democratization are preached, the General Assembly is the only body capable of guaranteeing that as many people as possible can make their voices heard at the world level and play an effective part in the management of international affairs. The Charter could therefore be amended to give greater power to the General Assembly, so that it might play a bigger role alongside the Security Council, particularly in the maintenance of peace. We therefore support the Secretary-General’s initiative to set up a ministerial commission to consider the possible changes. On financial reform, many eminent speakers — I would refer in particular to the Prime Minister of Pakistan — have stated in this debate that one of the main weaknesses of the United Nations stems from the fact that while some Members are supposed to pay their assessments in full and without conditions, others delay payment, making it contingent on one reason or another, whether stated or not. Madagascar appeals for what I would call a code of good conduct or financial civic-mindedness, in order to remedy this situation. We support the principle that the financing of the United Nations must be an integral part of the reform process. Moreover, the scale of assessments, the key to the apportionment of expenses, must reflect the capacity of each State to pay, as it is applied in most, if not all world organizations, on the basis of equity, pure and simple. It is clear to us that the scale cannot be set in stone and that there should be provision for amendment when necessary — that is, when there is a change in a country’s capacity to pay. Finally, we welcome the desire of the Secretary- General to allocate more predictable resources to finance development, to ensure an overall increase in official development assistance and to create an Office for Development Financing to allocate to developing countries what have been described as the dividends of reform. In regard to the Security Council, it would be putting it mildly to say that its present membership no longer reflects reality. To speak of our continent alone, Africa has the greatest number of Member States of the United Nations, and yet the continent has no permanent seat on the Security Council. Nor was the continent even consulted or considered at the time of the first review of the Council in 1965. Madagascar endorses the position of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and would opt for an expansion of Security Council membership based on democratization, transparency and equitable geographical representation. An increase in number and an improvement in the Council’s functioning and working methods, as well as its relations with States that are not members of the Council, are essential in order to reflect the present reality, and above all to allow the United Nations to lend an attentive ear to the problems of the poor and less favoured countries. In addition, relations between the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council must be strengthened, so that decisions on international peace and security can take into account social factors. In this regard, my delegation welcomes the decision of the sub-working group of the African Group, chaired by Egypt, which is considering the modalities for implementing a rotation system for two permanent seats which could be allocated to Africa, called for in the Harare Declaration of the summit of Heads of State and Government of the OAU. 3 We feel that the veto must not be considered separately from the question of expanding the membership of the Council. Moreover, given the principles of democracy supported by the international community as a whole, it would be logical to extend the right of veto to all permanent members, or simply to abolish it. In addition, we emphatically reaffirm that any question relating to reform of the Security Council must be subject to a two-thirds majority vote of Member States, in accordance with the provisions of Article 18 of the Charter. Any initiative to submit a simple resolution running counter to that would be prejudicial to the Organization and to its Members. The 15 priority areas on which the Secretary-General has taken action and made recommendations respond to the demands of today’s world. My delegation is certain that the substantive comments and proposals of the General Assembly will help implement the initiatives taken, so that our Organization can keep pace with the demands of our time and, above all, live up to the expectations of our people. In any event, Madagascar, within the framework of the regional forums to which it belongs, is considering the proposals of the Secretary-General in a spirit of constructive dialogue and without preconceptions. However, I cannot speak of international peace and security without expressing my concern at the slow pace of negotiations leading to general agreement on every aspect of Security Council reform. We are concerned because, despite the establishment of a Department for Disarmament and Arms Regulation, announced in the package of reforms, the Council will still remain, under the Charter, the body entrusted with maintaining international peace and security. However, the Malagasy Government welcomes the fact that cooperation between the United Nations and the OAU with regard to peace was mentioned in the Secretary-General’s report to the fifty-second session, as well as in statements made last Thursday at the ministerial meeting of the Security Council on the situation in Africa. We are pleased to note the determination of the Secretary-General to increase this cooperation and extend it to all activities related to the maintenance of peace, including conflict prevention. In this area, we welcome the Secretary- General’s plan to appoint a representative based in Addis Ababa. It is important here to emphasize the importance not only of combining, but also coordinating, the efforts of the OAU — which has a central Mechanism for Conflict Prevention Management and Resolution — with those of the Security Council, so that we do not work at cross- purposes. Here I would like to recall that the OAU welcomed the principle of strengthening African peacekeeping capacity, which France, the United Kingdom and the United States of America have jointly proposed to assist. My delegation welcomes the negotiations to date on nuclear disarmament measures and on limiting and gradually reducing conventional weapons and in particular anti-personnel mines. On this last point, Madagascar has voted in favour of General Assembly resolutions on a moratorium on the export of mines. We welcome the agreement drafted in Oslo on the text of a convention for the complete elimination of anti-personnel mines, as well as Norway’s commitment to provide $100 million for demining activities and assistance to victims. In this respect, my country appeals to States with military arsenals to continue resolutely to take measures aimed at general and complete disarmament. The participation of all States in this process of disarmament, in cooperation with the Department for Disarmament and Arms Regulation, whose establishment is part of the reform programme, will provide an invaluable contribution to the easing of global tensions. This international determination will also be a source of mutual assistance and cooperation in combating organized transnational crime. Transnational criminal organizations have, in fact, existed for a long time, but the globalization of international relations with regard to the economy, commerce, telecommunications and the rapid progress of technology, as well as the disappearance of ideological blocs, have permitted the activities of transnational criminal organizations to expand and have increased their power to such an extent that they are now a permanent threat to the foundation and internal security of States, to their cultural and artistic heritage and to the environment of the planet. Today we are witnessing the emergence of new forms of transnational crime: money- laundering or the investment of capital generated by activities that are usually interconnected, including drug- trafficking, corruption, traffic in weapons, terrorism, traffic in nuclear and toxic material, traffic in protected natural resources, traffic in human beings, removal of organs, and more. From this standpoint, the countries that are weakest in terms of economic, institutional, material and technological capacity are the most vulnerable — developing countries in general and African countries in particular — because the automatic effect of the activities of developed countries to prevent and combat organized 4 crime is to condemn such countries to becoming new zones of expansion. We must therefore urgently find an effective response to this threat by defining a common objective based on a united stand and coherent action, by establishing or strengthening cooperation for exchanging experience and knowledge, by increasing our exchange of information and, above all, by actively promoting and supporting cooperation with international or regional forums so as to provide institutional technical assistance and logistical support. That notwithstanding, we note the special importance attributed by the Secretary-General to the need to improve the capacity of the system to combat drug-trafficking and terrorism. Peace is, with development, one of the main missions of the United Nations. My country reaffirms its unwavering commitment to the principle of settling disputes peacefully. It is deeply concerned by the threats to destabilize peace in the world, especially in Africa. With regard to the Republic of Congo, therefore, Madagascar appeals to the parties to develop a dialogue aimed at a definitive ceasefire, in accordance with the spirit of the Libreville Summit, held on 14 and 15 September 1997, and at allowing the deployment, under the auspices of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity (OAU), of the international intervention force recommended at the Summit. As for the internal crisis in the Comoros, which is an immediate neighbour of Madagascar, we support of the efforts of the Secretary-General of the OAU as well as those of the League of Arab States and the Organization of the Islamic Conference. Furthermore, we reaffirm our support of the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros with regard to sovereignty and territorial integrity. In this respect we support the convening of an international conference to restore peace in that sister Republic, and we have expressed the readiness of Madagascar to become involved in any initiatives along these lines. Also in Africa, Madagascar welcomes the establishment of direct talks between Morocco and the POLISARIO Front, which recently culminated in the Houston Agreement, as a result of the mediation of James Baker. We believe this to be a major landmark on the path to the settlement of the question of Western Sahara, which has gone on for too long. In the Middle East, Madagascar also strongly appeals to the parties concerned to safeguard the progress achieved in the peace process. We believe that an essential element for this is for Israel to halt the establishment of new settlements. Finally, we reaffirm our support for the concept of the reunification of Korea and welcome the progress that is starting to appear in this regard. During the course of the United Nations conferences on human rights, the environment, population, social development, women, etc., we succeeded in achieving important global commitments, and we must ensure the follow-up. We have achieved an international consensus on the need to ensure that ecological realities and priorities for environmental policies are taken into account in structural changes that are in progress in the international economic order. To be more specific, we must integrate environmental factors — a precondition for sustainable development — into economic priorities. In this regard Madagascar encourages the efforts already undertaken by international development finance organizations and by Governments. We are convinced that the overall implementation of the provisions in the basic Agenda 21 document for rapid and specific action will come to fruition in the recommendations of the Secretary- General as contained in his programme for reform. In conclusion, I take this opportunity to recall my comments at the nineteenth special session of the General Assembly, on an overall review and appraisal of the implementation of Agenda 21. While reaffirming our full adherence to the principles of mutual interest and the shared but differentiated responsibilities of developed and developing countries contained in the Rio Declaration, and to its general implementation, we requested, first, that developed countries honour the commitments undertaken in Rio to devote 0.7 per cent of their gross national product to development assistance. Secondly, we requested that the Global Environment Facility be restructured and adequately replenished so as to facilitate access to resources; and thirdly and above all, that, following the concept of the “democracy dividend” and the “economic adjustment and reform dividend”, an “environment dividend” should be advocated for the least developed countries to enable them to protect their environment and thereby speed up the eradication of poverty, the main cause and consequence of environmental degradation. 5 We now ask whether the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) in its present form has the necessary power to impose sanctions or to grant dividends, or whether we need to strengthen its mandate or create a new structure with adequate power. For its part, Madagascar — we cannot repeat this often enough — is proud to comply with the measures recommended in Agenda 21. Indeed, it stands out in its capacity as a country that is both a nature sanctuary and a natural sanctuary, possessing treasures and specific characteristics that are rare, if not unique in the world, in terms of flora and fauna. We hope that in Kyoto in December firm commitments will be made to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which cause global warming and thereby contribute to the further deterioration of our environment. It rests only with us to make this session a session of reform, as the Secretary-General wishes, or to make it a session like so many others — one in which speakers assail us with rhetoric or at best with verbal promises that are not followed up with actions. Madagascar is convinced that we will make the right choice at the right time to consolidate our ideals. ﻿Please allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its current session. I believe your wisdom and experience will enable you to accomplish your lofty mission with distinction. At the same time, I would like to express my appreciation to Mr. Razali Ismail for his contribution as President of the General Assembly at its last session. This year, 1997, is no ordinary year for China. Last February, when Deng Xiaoping, the chief architect of China’s reform and opening-up, passed away, the 1.2 billion Chinese people were immersed in deep sorrow. Turning grief into strength, we are determined to heed his behest by deepening reform, opening the country still wider to the outside world, stepping up national development and promoting the cause of world peace. Here, on behalf of the Chinese Government and people, I would like once again to thank the United Nations and its Member States for the sincere condolences they expressed on the passing of Deng Xiaoping. Your kind words gave us strength at our time of bereavement. Just a few days ago, the Fifteenth National Congress of the Communist Party of China came to a triumphant conclusion in Beijing. This Congress, holding high the great banner of Deng Xiaoping theory, charts the future course of China’s development with a blueprint and displays the resolve to carry forward the cause of building socialism with Chinese characteristics well into the twenty-first century. On 1 July of this year, China resumed its exercise of sovereignty over Hong Kong, which wiped out our national humiliation of one and a half centuries and opened up a new chapter in our peaceful reunification. During the more than two months since its return, Hong Kong has enjoyed social stability and economic prosperity, which fills the people of Hong Kong, of China and of the world at large with great joy. The realization of Deng Xiaoping’s concept of “one country, two systems” in Hong Kong carries profound significance. Firmly adhering to this concept, we will keep up the peaceful reunification of our motherland by ensuring a smooth return of Macao and eventually resolving the Taiwan question. Taiwan is an inalienable part of Chinese territory, and the Taiwan question is purely an internal affair of China. Any country that attempts to use the Taiwan question to put pressure on China or even clamours for “two Chinas” or “one China, one Taiwan” has acted in total contravention of the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter and the relevant General Assembly resolutions. Such behaviour will be absolutely unacceptable to the Chinese people, as well as to all the countries upholding justice in the world. As the international situation continues to undergo profound changes, peace and development have become the main themes of our times. The world is evolving towards multipolarity with growing diversity in countries’ political, economic and cultural lives. This trend has become an irresistible tide of history. The two world wars in the first half of the twentieth century plunged mankind into unprecedented havoc. And the cold war, which lasted for more than four decades in the latter half of our century, kept humanity in the dark shadow of war. Reviewing the past and looking to the future, people throughout the world are anxiously waiting for the establishment of a just and equitable new international political and economic order, and they are hoping to see lasting peace and prosperity for all in the coming century. The cold-war security regime that featured military alliances and the arms race is, as has been proved, incapable of making peace. Expanding military blocs and enhancing military alliances under new circumstances can do little to bring about greater security. Relations between States should be based on the five principles of mutual respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, mutual non-aggression, non-interference in each other’s internal affairs, equality and mutual benefit and peaceful coexistence. Each country has the right to choose a road of development according to its own national conditions, and no country should interfere in the internal affairs of other countries on whatever grounds. This must serve as the political prerequisite for global and regional security. 16 All countries should increase their mutually beneficial cooperation in the economic field, eliminate unequal practices in trade and economic relations, and do away with discriminatory policies with a view to gradually narrowing the gap between the rich and the poor and achieving common prosperity. This should serve as the economic foundation for global and regional security. All countries should step up consultation and cooperation in the security field, increase mutual understanding and trust, and undertake to settle through peaceful means, whatever differences and disputes they may have. This is the practical way to achieve global and regional security. In the first half of the year, five countries — China, Russia, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan — signed the agreement on mutual reduction of military forces in the border areas; the four-party talks aimed at bringing about a new peace mechanism on the Korean peninsula were launched; and the Regional Forum of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) introduced a preliminary form of cooperation on security issues featuring equal participation and negotiated consensus. These are some of the examples of searching for new models of security cooperation and of the initial progress already made. We feel concerned about the recent setbacks in the Middle East peace process. We are of the view that the relevant United Nations resolutions should be complied with, agreements reached among the parties concerned in the peace process should be honoured, the principle of land for peace should be adhered to, and terrorist activities should stop. We hope that the parties concerned will work together on that basis so that the Madrid Peace Conference on peace in the Middle East will resume at an early date. We are also deeply concerned about the incessant conflicts and turmoil which have plagued Africa since the beginning of this year, and wish the African countries steady progress along the road of peace and development. The past year has seen new progress in the field of international arms control and disarmament. The Chemical Weapons Convention has entered into force; the Preparatory Committee of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty has started its work; the extent of nuclear-weapon-free zones is increasing; and negotiations on the efficacy of the Biological Weapons Convention have made further headway. In our view, no one should try to monopolize the market in the name of preventing proliferation or try to interfere in the economic and technological cooperation of other countries, developing countries in particular. An overhaul of the discriminatory and exclusive non-proliferation regimes and arrangements is thus necessary, on the basis of universal participation, and the United Nations should see to it that it accomplishes something in this regard. We maintain that continued efforts should be made to advance the process of multilateral arms control and disarmament. The universality of international arms- control treaties should be strengthened and complete adherence to them ensured. Instead of weakening and undermining security, arms-control and disarmament efforts should reinforce it. The target of disarmament should not be shifted to developing countries, as countries with the largest and most sophisticated arsenals bear a special responsibility for disarmament. I would also like to draw the Assembly’s attention to China’s recent announcement of a unilateral step of disarmament — that is, having reduced its troop strength by 1 million in the 1980s, China will further reduce its military by 500,000 troops within the next three years. This is a move of major significance in the field of disarmament. In the past year, the overall situation of the world economy has been good. Economic links and mutual penetration among countries and regions are on the constant increase. The importance of international cooperation should be given a fresh evaluation with a view to making it broader, closer and more fruitful. Developing countries are most vulnerable to the impact of adverse environmental conditions because of their weak economic foundations. At present, the international financial market is highly globalized and very risky. We should work to stabilize the financial market and ensure steady economic growth of the developing countries. The Uruguay Round agreements should be implemented in a comprehensive, faithful and balanced manner, and attempts to impose a linkage between environmental or labour standards and trade must be opposed. Environment and development pose a common challenge to mankind. The United Nations has held two 17 important conferences in the 1990s, setting forth a set of guiding principles for the solution of the issue. We hope the international community, developed countries in particular, will honour its pledges to provide funds and transfer technology to the developing countries so as to translate the declaration of partnership into real action. Many transboundary issues, such as poverty, unemployment, refugees, drugs and crime, need to be addressed through consultation by the international community. The work of the United Nations in the social field needs to be strengthened. All countries should, in keeping with the principles of mutual respect, equality and mutual benefit, endeavour to promote international cooperation. They should get down to practical tasks, the first of which is to help developing countries deal with their most urgent difficulties. We hope that the special session of the General Assembly on international drug control, scheduled for next year, will yield positive results by formulating a cross-century strategy for combating drug- related crimes through strengthened international cooperation along with effective measures of implementation. China will continue to support the United Nations in its work in the social field and will make a greater contribution to social progress around the world. The realization of human rights is the common ideal of mankind. All countries have made great efforts to this end, with both achievements and lessons. We maintain that the universality of human rights should be respected; yet their realization must be integrated with the conditions of each country. A review of United Nations practice over the past 50 years and more shows that when countries or regions do this they will enjoy social stability, economic development and popular contentment. When they do not, society will face disintegration, with people losing their most basic human rights and freedoms, and gross violations of human rights will even take place when chaos erupts as a result of war. We say it is quite natural for people to differ on the human rights issue. The question is how to deal with these differences. Which is the better approach: dialogue or confrontation? I opt for dialogue. Only dialogue can enhance mutual understanding and cooperation. Confrontation, on the other hand, can only lead to further estrangement and do nobody any good. We are pleased to see that more and more countries are in favour of dialogue in handling the human rights issue. The Chinese Government attaches importance to human rights and is dedicated to promoting and protecting human rights of its people. Having repeatedly suffered from foreign aggression in the past, the Chinese people know full well how state sovereignty and territorial integrity fundamentally guarantee the realization of their human rights. We in China — taking upon ourselves the task of feeding, clothing, sheltering and educating, and providing travel facilities to, our 1.2 billion people — know full well how vitally important our right to subsistence and our right to development are. To enable our people to lead a freer, happier and more democratic life, we are focusing above all on the development of our economy and on advancing democracy and our legal system. China will soon sign the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and is studying earnestly the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. We stand ready to work with other countries in a continued effort to promote cooperation in the international human rights field. As the most important intergovernmental organization in the world, the United Nations occupies an irreplaceable position in international life. At the same time, an evolving situation calls for reform of the United Nations. Last July, Secretary-General Kofi Annan submitted an extensive report on the reform of the United Nations. We appreciate his effort. We are in favour of reforming the United Nations. The purpose of such reform is to strengthen the role of the United Nations and enhance its efficiency. Measures taken in this regard must reflect the common interests of all Member States and the results must be able to stand the test of time. To this end, we offer the following views. United Nations reform is the shared cause of all Member States. It should allow full play to democracy, heed the voices of all sides and take into account the interests of various parties. The reform plan should be widely acceptable to Member States. To enhance efficiency, an appropriate reduction of personnel and expenditure is necessary. What is important, however, is for the reform to put greater emphasis on development issues with a view to 18 strengthening rather than weakening the United Nations role in the promotion of economic and social development. The reform should help preserve the diversity in the United Nations, which is a microcosm of the diversity of the world. Only when world diversity is recognized and respected can different countries live in harmony and make progress together. The reform should stress practical results, place value on quality, and progress in an incremental manner. The enlargement of the Security Council should follow the principle of equitable geographical distribution and ensure a proper balance between developing and developed countries. The Security Council will better perform the lofty mission entrusted to it under the United Nations Charter only when it becomes more broadly representative. Payment of assessed dues is the bounden duty of every Member State under the Charter of the United Nations. We urge the countries concerned to pay off their arrears without conditions and as early as possible in order to put the United Nations on a sound financial basis for normal operation. Countries around the world need the United Nations. So does the United Nations need their support.  ﻿We inhabit a modern world in which we must accept change as the normal condition of life. Communication around the globe is becoming faster. The distance between our countries is becoming shorter. I travelled to New York at twice the speed of sound and I landed before I took off. Every word I say to the Assembly today will be sent to London down a telephone line and within minutes it will appear on the World Wide Web. Our countries today are intertwined as never before in a market place that is global. And our people have learned that their purchasing decisions have an impact on jobs and pay across the planet — from the fruit they buy at the supermarket to the fuel they use in their cars. Changes to the environment in one continent can produce changes to the weather in another continent. Our countries are increasingly interdependent, and the challenges we each face are global challenges — challenges that we must face together: poverty, conflict, climate change, international crime and the drugs menace. These are all international problems that require us to behave as a united nations not just in name but in reality. And so the United Nations should have a bigger role than ever before. If it appears to be less relevant, it is not for want of challenge but for want of reform. The United Nations must modernize. It must be able to confront the new global challenges that all its Members face. It will need flexibility, competence and efficiency to meet the complex needs of the twenty-first century because the United Nations cannot give leadership to a changing world if we ourselves refuse to change. The outstanding leadership shown by the Secretary- General is an important start. His proposals for institutional reform will retain what is best in the United Nations system but give it the flexibility and the efficiency it needs to respond rapidly to the new challenges of a new century. The member countries of the United Nations must support his commitment to modernization. We must each stop measuring each proposal for reform in terms of narrow self-interest and, instead, recognize that we all have a greater interest in supporting reform. Britain’s Labour Government is firmly committed to the United Nations. We demonstrated this commitment as soon as we were elected by rejoining the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and by confirming our intention to stay in the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO). We were elected because we offered Britain modernization to succeed in a new century. We pledge ourselves to back modernization of the United Nations. We do so because we know that our country, like all other Member States, will benefit from a United Nations that is efficient, representative and properly funded. Let me take each of those in turn. Efficient does not spell cheap. But we do want to see the United Nations do the most it can with what it has got — a United Nations that no longer spends $150 million producing 2,500 tons of documents every year. We thoroughly welcome the Secretary-General’s commitment to reduce the number of documents by 25 per cent by next year. We want to see an end to the duplication between United Nations agencies, and I give my wholehearted support to the Secretary-General’s proposal for a Special Commission to look at the division of labour right across the United Nations system. 15 Another way in which the United Nations is out of date is its Security Council. We are all agreed in this Chamber that what was appropriate in 1945 is not what is right in 1997. The world has changed. Most of the countries represented here today did not even exist when the United Nations was formed. The Security Council must move on if it is not to lose its legitimacy. Japan and Germany should both be included in an expanded permanent membership, and there should be a new balance between developed and developing countries in a modernized Security Council. We are all agreed on the need for change; we have been discussing it for four years. It is time that we agreed that a proposal for change which has the backing of the vast majority of Members is better than a status quo which has the backing of none. It is not just all the countries of the United Nations that must be properly represented, but all the people of those countries. More than half those people are women. Britain welcomes the United Nations willingness to put gender perspective into all areas of its work. The new Labour Government attaches particular importance to strengthening the rights of women. Women do more than half the world’s work. They should have equal status in the international organizations of the world. Let us also put the United Nations finances on a sound basis. Speaker after speaker yesterday referred to the need for us to cooperate to defeat those who make fortunes from organized crime and to contain the drugs trade, second only in value to the oil trade. We cannot defeat those well- resourced menaces to the modern world through a United Nations that staggers from year to year on the verge of bankruptcy. We need a solution based on the ability to pay. The most equitable means of sharing the burden is to base contributions on share of global gross national product. But that measure will only be accepted as equitable if it is updated regularly to reflect the rapid changes to the world economy. And it is not equitable that some Members pay their contributions while other Members do not. Britain pays in full and on time. Britain expects every Member State, however large or however small, to do the same. These three issues — institutional reform, Security Council reform and financial reform — are critical to the United Nations future. Let us commit ourselves to progress on all these issues by the end of 1997 and solutions by this time next year. Next time we meet, let us celebrate a modern United Nations that can face the future with confidence, rather than looking back on another year of agreeing about all the questions but not being able to agree on any of the answers. And then the United Nations will be able to get on with its job. There are three key areas in which the United Nations has a vital job to do — promoting sustainable development, promoting peace and promoting human rights. Those are not separate challenges, but different faces of the same challenge. There can be no real and sustainable development or respect for human rights without peace. And there will be no permanent peace where there is only poverty and injustice. During every speech this week another 300 children will die before their first birthday, most of them deaths that could be easily and cheaply prevented. If the United Nations is to be relevant to its Members, then more than anything else it must enable people to lift themselves out of poverty. Britain supports the United Nations aid target. As Britain’s contribution to achieving it, the mew Labour Governments has committed itself to reversing the decline in the British aid budget. Britain has also consistently urged faster action in tackling the problem of debt, and at the Commonwealth Finance Ministers meeting in Mauritius last week, British Chancellor Gordon Brown launched a new initiative to cut debt that will benefit 300 million of the world’s poorest people and help developing countries escape from the debt trap. But aid will not alone eliminate poverty. We need to continue breaking down the barriers that deny the poorest countries access to the world’s most lucrative markets. We need to make sure that producers in Africa are allowed to sell their goods to Europe and to America as easily as their producers can sell their goods to Africa. Sustainable development will do more than just reduce poverty. Poverty is also one of the greatest threats to the environment. If we want to preserve the planet for future generations, we must make sure that development respects the environment and does not destroy it. The United Nations Commission on Sustainable Development has made important progress towards this goal. But it is not a task any country can subcontract to the United Nations. We are all in this together. No country can opt out of global warming or fence in its own private climate. We need common action to save our common environment. 16 The new Labour Government has set itself the ambitious target of reducing Britain’s emissions of greenhouse gases by 20 per cent by the year 2010. At the third session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, in Kyoto, the nations of the world must sign up to binding targets and then they must keep to them. The second key goal is peace — preventing conflicts before they happen, helping to end them when they do happen and helping to rebuild lasting peace after conflict. Each of these contributions to peace is equally vital. But it is the United Nations peacekeeping operations that have the highest profile, and with good reason. The blue berets have prevented worse conflict across the world, from Eastern Slavonia to the Western Sahara. Many have laid down their lives, not in the conduct of war but in the pursuit of peace. The death of a dozen international policemen and envoys, among them a British diplomat, in the United Nations helicopter that crashed in Bosnia last week, was a grim reminder of the risks we ask our peace- builders to take. I pay tribute to their courage and salute them for their professionalism and their skill. The last area in which the United Nations must focus is human rights. As the world becomes smaller, and news and ideas travel faster, so the principle that certain rights are universal becomes even more compelling. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights sets out the right to freedom from the fear of violence and the right to liberty from the threat of unjust imprisonment. Those are rights to which every citizen of the world irrespective of race, creed or colour. They must not be limited to any one culture or any one continent. As the Secretary-General has pointed out Secretary-General has pointed out, the mothers from every culture weep when their sons and daughters are killed or maimed by repressive rule. Nor do human rights hinder economic development. The past two decades have demonstrated that political freedom and economic development are not in conflict but are mutually reinforcing. Free societies are efficient economies. Authoritarian rule more often produces economic stagnation. That is why Britain supports the Secretary-General’s proposals to integrate human rights into all the work that the United Nations does. This is my first General Assembly. I attend it with both hope and with anxiety — hope that, if it modernizes, the United Nations can help us face the global challenges of the future; anxiety that, without modernizing, the United Nations will lose legitimacy and its effectiveness. We must not let that happen. There are too many children stunted by poverty, too many mothers fearful of war, too many people whose basic human rights are being abuse. The United Nations offers them hope. Let us commit ourselves this week to achieving a modern, reformed United Nations that will turn hope into reality.  ﻿I wish to join other delegations in congratulating you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session. I am sure that, with your vast experience and diplomatic skill, this Assembly will be guided towards achieving the goals to which all peace-loving nations aspire. I also take this occasion to thank your predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail, for the efficient and energetic manner in which he presided over the Assembly at its fifty-first session. As we approach the dawn of a new millennium, the international community continues to prepare itself for the new challenges that the twenty-first century will inevitably bring. Malta welcomes the commitment of our evolving United Nations, ably led by Secretary-General Kofi Annan, to become more responsive to and effective in meeting these new challenges. Similarly, we share his perception that the United Nations is at a moment of great opportunity. There should be little doubt that, with the demise of bloc politics, the way has been opened for a world more at ease with itself. Tension on a global scale has diminished. At the same time, global instability has been replaced by regional tensions that have often led to ethnic and other localized conflicts. In our interdependent world, the United Nations has a significant role to play in the promotion of understanding and cooperation, which are essential elements for the survival of humankind. For its part, Malta is ready to work closely with all Member States to strengthen our capacity for collective action in the best interests of the States and peoples of our countries, particularly in upholding the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. Our commitment to fundamental rights and the process of democracy is unwavering. Malta looks forward to the establishment of an international criminal court in Rome in 1998. Earlier this month, Malta was honoured to host an international conference on this initiative, which we strongly support. Our commitment to the setting up of such a court stems from the fact that this court would be a landmark development in the creation of a balanced and effective system aimed at ensuring that international crimes, 5 especially mass violations of basic fundamental human rights, do not remain unpunished. We strongly believe that no country can enjoy peace and prosperity in the true sense of the word unless fundamental human rights are respected and unless the State adopts a democratic system of government. Likewise, Malta is committed to an international policy that promotes disarmament and supports all measures that militate against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. Malta fully supports current efforts being undertaken to ban the production and use of anti-personnel landmines. Eleven months to the day after a democratic change of Government in Malta, I must take this occasion to affirm our commitment to peace, to cooperation among all nations and to the pursuit of economic prosperity in a context of social justice. Placed as it is at the southern rim of Europe and at the geographic and strategic centre of the Mediterranean, Malta stands by its commitment to the ideals of European integration as well as to those of Mediterranean unity. We believe that both these sets of ideals are of vital importance, while being complementary and in the best interests of all Mediterranean and all European peoples. In following up on these ideals, we have proposed to the Maltese nation a vision of a role for Malta that tangibly affirms the island's neutrality, in order to remove once and for all any perception that Malta could be of any threat to any of its neighbours, north or south, west or east. Within this context, our vision projects for Malta a role that, subject to our clear limitations of size and resources, actively seeks to help build political, economic, social and cultural bridges between all our neighbours and other peoples of the Euro-Mediterranean space. Indeed, Malta's foreign policy has three important constituents. It is a foreign policy based on cooperation with neighbouring countries, free of alignments yet open and friendly to all; supported by an economic strategy based on high-quality production and the provision of high- quality services; and endeavouring to pursue excellence and reliability in all that it seeks and undertakes. Malta's foreign policy priority is to maintain the best and most transparent relationship possible with all of our neighbours in the Euro-Mediterranean region and beyond. Our active neutrality foreign policy agenda aims to deepen our ties with the European Union in a meaningful manner while implementing an active Mediterranean policy to encourage regional cooperation and unity. Indeed, the Government of Malta aims to forge the closest possible relations with the European Union by negotiating ties in the form of a free trade area coupled with a long-term political and security cooperation agreement, and cooperation in technical, economic, financial and social affairs. We are equally committed to build upon our Mediterranean identity and heritage by seeking to further spur intra-regional networks of cooperation. Malta strongly believes that such cooperation, based on dialogue and mutual understanding, will contribute to a peaceful Euro-Mediterranean region where Malta is ready to act as a catalyst to bring together the diverse civilizations of the Mediterranean littoral. It is in this spirit that Malta speaks of and promotes its active neutrality. We seek and promote peace and stability in a troubled and complex region. Malta presents no threat of any nature to anyone. At the same time, Malta extends to all of its neighbours the engagement and commitment of an honest broker, an intermediary or simply a venue for dialogue and discussion, in the search for a solution to the many problems which beset them. The Government of Malta is determined to be proactive in the quest for peace, and, in this context, we are determined to enhance the trust needed to act in the best interests of all of our societies. Malta's neutrality is indeed validated by our geostrategic position in the centre of the Mediterranean, where political uncertainties, socio-economic disparities and diverse cultural traditions all are contributing to an area that remains plagued by tension and instability. Far from being ideologically motivated, Malta's neutrality is therefore a direct response to the very specific and unique geopolitical factors that currently exist in the surrounding region. The Government of Malta believes that its strategy of active, site-specific neutrality enables it effectively to promote stability and understanding across the Euro- Mediterranean region. Moreover, this status of neutrality will continue to serve Malta's self-interests precisely because it will also serve the best interests of the European Union member States and of our Mediterranean neighbours. 6 For Malta, the Mediterranean has been and continues to be an integral element in our national development programme. Malta's active participation in international and regional forums is perhaps best described as an extension of its cooperative security philosophy. The Mediterranean is a microcosm of today's multipolar world. The region epitomizes many of the problems associated with the North-South debate. These include maritime safety, maritime pollution, illegal migration, terrorism and weapons proliferation. Malta is particularly concerned at the ever-widening demographic gap and the ever-widening economic disparities in the Mediterranean region between the affluent North and the underdeveloped South. Poverty, combined with a lack of job opportunities and deteriorating living conditions, is fueling extremist tensions throughout the Mediterranean. Malta lies at the crossroads of the Mediterranean and therefore believes it can act as a focal point in the effort needed to attract the necessary attention and resources to tackle security challenges in the region. The Mediterranean is still dominated by areas of tension and conflict, which require our constant vigilance. Israeli-Palestinian relations, the Cyprus question, the situation in the former Yugoslavia, the sanctions against Libya, the situation in Algeria and other issues continue to create political tension, which is unfortunately escalating and therefore creating a sense of urgency in the finding of immediate and enduring solutions. My Government thus believes that the perceived threats to stability and therefore to security in the Mediterranean are more of a political, environmental, economic, social and humanitarian nature than of a military one. An important dimension of my Government's foreign policy is directed towards the fight against drug-related matters: illicit trafficking, money laundering and organized crime. As a transit country, Malta could easily be open to involvement in the web woven by drug traffickers. Nevertheless, Malta is more determined than ever to face up to this challenge, which is threatening the very fabric of our societies. Malta calls upon the international community for support in our efforts to eradicate this social plague. The Government of Malta believes that the creation of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Mediterranean, established on the basis of arrangements unanimously agreed to by all the States of the region, would inevitably contribute to peace and stability in the Mediterranean. This fact was acknowledged by the 1995 Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), when the creation of such zones was encouraged. The ultimate objective of Malta's Mediterranean policy is the transformation of the region into a politically stable and an economically prosperous, demilitarized and nuclear-free zone. In this respect, Malta intends to make maximum use of its contacts and available diplomatic representation at the United Nations and in other international forums to promote its political objective of the Mediterranean Sea as an area of peace and stability. Through regular diplomatic interaction with other Member States at the United Nations, as well as through a more active interchange and collaboration with the Office of the Secretary-General, Malta intends to keep questions relating to the Mediterranean high on the international agenda. Earlier this year Malta was host to the second Euro- Mediterranean Conference, at which 27 States from Europe and the Mediterranean held their second ministerial meeting in as many years to forge a Euro- Mediterranean partnership, an event which in itself has far-reaching significance. The Malta Conference reiterated that the serious and deep-seated problems of our region need to be tackled through a process of dialogue and common action, extending over a period of time and covering a whole range of interrelated issues. It is Malta's conviction that this process has generated a political commitment that will effectively contribute to the removal of the misperceptions and prejudice that still exist in the region. In its document on foreign policy published before Malta's last general elections, held in October 1996, the Malta Labour Party stated that for the United Nations to improve its credibility and authority, it must improve its structure, its administration and its competence. Above all, it is hoped that this world Organization will develop a more efficient mechanism by which it could implement and execute its decisions more rapidly and effectively. That is why Malta today supports the initiative of the Secretary-General in presenting his report to the General Assembly and congratulates him for what we consider to be proposals of an unprecedented and comprehensive nature. This annual gathering provides the perfect setting for the international community to come together and take stock of the previous 12 months and to identify, as 7 precisely as possible, the challenges that lie ahead. We believe that three types of trans-national security challenges require our immediate attention. These are the war on drugs, environmental degradation and the eradication of poverty. Unlike the immediately visible effects of war, these three challenges cannot always be defined with sufficient clarity, although they have a potential for destruction that is equivalent to that of war. Malta sees each of these areas as a far-reaching hazard which threatens the very fabric of our economic, human and environmental habitat, leading to instability and presenting real threats to our security. The first challenge concerns the scourge of illicit drug trafficking. Countless human lives are being ruined and wasted to satisfy the greed of a few. This is an unacceptable situation. Malta believes that the United Nations system is well placed to coordinate this fight through appropriate and effective measures. We therefore welcome the recommendation of the Secretary-General that the functions of the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice and the Commission on Narcotic Drugs be consolidated into a single commission under arrangements that will fully preserve the treaty-based functions entrusted to the latter. The second challenge we are facing on the threshold of the twenty-first century is the reconciliation of environmental concerns with development needs. The common concerns and mutual interests of the international community in promoting sustainable development, and at the same time protecting our environment, cut across national boundaries. The problem of the environment is no less relevant to Mediterranean countries. Sound management of Malta's coastal and marine environments is of crucial importance for an island State like Malta. The pressures exerted on the Mediterranean environment as a consequence of its being an important maritime highway and a tourist destination are of particular concern. We believe that solutions to common environmental problems are best found through an integrated regional approach. My Government is firmly committed to a proactive role in supporting regional initiatives in the Mediterranean for the conservation and sustainable management of its natural marine habitat. Malta has contributed actively to this process in the past, within the context of the Mediterranean Action Plan of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the Barcelona Convention, the most recent initiative being the setting up of the Mediterranean Commission for Sustainable Development. Malta intends to strengthen its participation in that Commission as well as to contribute to the fullest extent to the Mediterranean environmental programmes within the context of the Euro-Mediterranean process. Malta fully supports the efforts of the Organization in the promotion of environmental protection and the sustainable use of the world's natural resources to ensure a more equitable distribution of wealth, and of an international trade regime free of restrictive or discriminatory practices. Together we must adopt an effective course of action for the coming years that will create the right balance between the need for human- centred and socially just development and the need to ensure the sustainability of our natural environment. In the five years since the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, not much, unfortunately, has been achieved. Last June's special session made an in-depth appraisal of the progress achieved, defined future priorities and helped to raise the issue of sustainable development higher on the political agenda. We acknowledge that all of us — developed and developing, rich and poor — share a common interest in the pursuit and attainment of development, which must be sustained, equitable and integrated. In the words of the Secretary-General, development is “a pillar of peace, a foundation of stability, and a powerful force for preventive diplomacy and preventive action”. [Press release ECOSOC/5708] However, our third challenge is what I consider to be the most complex. For years, the international community has been trying to come to grips with the perennial problem faced by millions and millions of the world's population: poverty. The ever-increasing disparities between the haves and the have-nots have reached alarming proportions. The cold war and East- West division have been superseded by a post-cold-war North-South divide. Though many had predicted this development and called for a concerted effort to deal with the issue, little has been done to try to reverse this trend. Poverty still reigns supreme. Aggravated poverty, hunger and malnutrition are a paradox of our times. A fifth of the world's population, or 1.3 billion human beings, live on incomes of below a dollar a day, and over 50 per cent of the world's population have less than 5 per cent of total global income. 8 The United Nations system is uniquely placed to deal with such intolerable and acute problems. This Organization must dedicate more attention and more time to coordinating effective action to alleviate the suffering and the degrading environment in which billions of citizens still live. It is time to act firmly and unequivocally to halt the aggravation of this situation, which is fast becoming a latent source of political instability in the world. Malta believes that as we enter the new millennium our Organization must become more relevant; it must become more democratic. Today's setup reflects the past. In a world where everyone is speaking about democracy, the right and the use of the veto become anachronistic. Malta is of the view that the use of the veto should be curtailed with a view to its eventual elimination. Malta is not in favour of extending the right of veto. On the issue of the expansion of the Security Council, Malta believes that the Charter of the United Nations considers all States to be equal, and therefore it follows that though we should have a more representative Security Council that reflects today's membership of the United Nations, this can easily be achieved by increasing the number of non-permanent seats to the Council. My Government has carefully examined the Secretary- General's report on renewing the United Nations, document A/51/950. We agree on the need for more efficiency and greater cost-effectiveness. At the same time, we feel that, as the Organization is a unique body, its tasks and successes cannot be measured solely in monetary terms. Here, I would like to highlight two important areas of the Secretary-General's report. In paragraph 108 it is stated that when imposing sanctions the Security Council should give more consideration “to making these sanctions more effective in achieving the goal of modifying the behaviour of those targeted, while limiting the collateral damages. There is also a need to address the broader humanitarian and economic effects of sanctions, as well as objective criteria in their application and for their termination”. [A/51/950] Malta finds itself in total agreement with this statement. While supporting the use of fair sanctions, imposed appropriately and for the minimum period of time possible by the United Nations in its task of guaranteeing international peace, we feel that the decision to impose sanctions, especially those which will ultimately affect the whole population of a given country, must be justified and that they should be imposed only as a last resort. In another area referred to by the Secretary-General in his report, Malta would like to see the Secretariat's Department of Political Affairs dedicate more time and attention to the situation in the Mediterranean region. In this context, consideration should be given to the establishment of a Mediterranean desk within that Department. The creation of such a desk would facilitate contacts and the Department would thus assume a more direct role in the implementation of the relevant provisions of resolutions adopted by the General Assembly on the strengthening of security and cooperation in the Mediterranean. Malta's contributions in the search for peace, security and cooperation for the benefit of mankind are well recorded in the annals of the history of this Organization. Malta's initiatives on the law of the sea and climate change and the recent initiative on the new role to be given to the Trusteeship Council are witness to the esteem and dedication which Malta attaches to its role in this Organization. Malta is a small island State. Notwithstanding this, we look upon the United Nations as the forum where countries such as ours can express their views and where the principle of the equality of States is enshrined and protected. For us, this Organization has much significance and for this reason Malta intends to support the Secretary- General in his quest for urgent reform. The more efficient and relevant the United Nations becomes, the better our interests are served. My Government will continue to give its wholehearted support to the United Nations, its agencies and its programmes. Many of the problems and challenges which will face us in the third millennium can be overcome only through the concerted efforts of all Member States and through a better, more efficient and more effective United Nations.  ﻿I take pleasure in congratulating the President on his election to preside over the fifty-second session of the General Assembly and to congratulate his friendly country on his election to that high international office. We are confident that his wide-ranging expertise will facilitate his task and lead the deliberations of this session to a successful end. I should also like to thank his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Razali Ismail, for his wise leadership of the previous session of the General Assembly. On this occasion I cannot fail to renew my congratulations to the Secretary-General of the United Nations and to Africa, his great continent. I wish him full success in discharging his tasks in accordance with the principles and purposes of the Charter. Although more than 50 years have elapsed since the adoption of the Charter of the United Nations, and although States have since committed themselves to peace in their international relations, many regions of the world, particularly in the Middle East, continue to suffer occupation, aggression and the threat of aggression to a point where the sounds of war have begun to drown out that of peace. It has now become clear to most of those concerned with peace and security in various corners of the Earth that the peace process initiated at the Madrid Conference six years ago has reached a dead end. This is due to the volte-face by the current Israeli Government vis-à-vis that process, including the commitments, agreements and pledges stemming from it. It is also due to its cynicism towards all the strenuous international efforts seeking, for the first time in the history of the Arab-Israeli conflict, to achieve a comprehensive solution to this conflict. Perhaps many of us, Governments as well as peoples, cannot foresee the extent of the serious repercussions that will result from that Israeli reversal on the peace process, particularly since it is taking place in the post-cold-war period, when wars and armed confrontations have taken ugly and barbaric forms and have often raged out of control. Syria, which has opted for the achievement of peace in the Middle East on the basis of justice and dignity as a strategic choice, finds that it is duty bound to train a spotlight from this important international rostrum on some facts concerning the positions of the current Israeli Government. This should enable the international community, with the sponsors of the peace process foremost among them, to beware of any serious developments in the future leading to undermining the security and stability of the Middle East region and beyond. As a preliminary observation, I must point out that in our reading of the policy of the Israeli Government we do not proceed from the perception widely held around the world which classifies it as an extremist Zionist Government bent on negating the other party to the conflict rather than making peace with it. We proceed merely from an objective description of declared positions of the Israeli Government and from its practices on the ground, which — at a minimum — aim at gradually backtracking from the commitments and agreements reached by the parties during the peace talks and ultimately at completely eradicating the peace process launched at the Madrid Conference. 20 It seems to us that the method now employed by the Israeli Government to reach that objective is not the usual one of one step forward, two steps back. It is now a new practice, a tactic of one step back, then two steps back, followed by a threat of a further step backwards which cannot be abandoned, even provisionally, until the other side accepts new conditions it had already rejected. Thus, the peace process regresses until it ultimately cancels itself out. In this context, some may find it unfairly prejudicial to the Israeli Government to characterize its practices in such terms. They would, however, be surprised to learn that the Head of the Israeli Government himself boasts to his inner circle of employing such a tactic, which he believes is a very astute means of ending the peace process as unobtrusively as possible. This does not stop at the modus operandi alone, but extends to the details of the very fundamental issues underpinning the peace process. While acknowledging the applicability of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) to the occupied Syrian Golan, he also simultaneously rejects the results reached on the Syrian track, with the participation of the United States as sponsor, on the basis of those resolutions and relating to withdrawal to the line of 4 June 1967. He further rejects the resumption of negotiations from the point at which they were halted. It is also strange that the Israeli Government rejects the formula of land for peace, though it is at the very core of the United States initiative and has always enjoyed international unanimity. Instead of accepting this formula, the head of the Israeli Government advances others that neither common sense nor logic could entertain and that cannot stand the test of time, such as the formula of peace for peace or peace for security. It is clear that accepting these two Israeli formulas would be tantamount to surrender and to becoming an instrument at the service of Israel’s security. It is indeed true that security issues are of the utmost importance to all States, peoples and individuals. That is not in doubt. However, security is the fruit of peace; the achievement of peace brings security and not vice versa. Proceeding from that, we believe that the Israeli Government, in giving priority in its policy to security over peace, runs counter to all the concepts defined by societies and warring States throughout history. It is no exaggeration to say that the insistence of the Israeli Government on its erroneous concept of achieving security before ending occupation will turn the peace process into a bloodletting process, a cycle of killing that will obtain neither security nor peace for Israel and may return the Arab-Israeli conflict to its tragic beginnings. The Charter of the United Nations states that the efforts of the peoples of the world must be concerted in order to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war. Respect for the commitments proceeding from the principles of international law and its sources lies at the very heart of the Charter. It is regrettable that the Israeli Government does not realize that its failure to respect the commitments reached with the previous Government on the Syrian track, based on the principles of international law and relevant Security Council resolutions, does not represent a mere legal violation. First and foremost, it casts doubt on the credibility of any previous Israeli Government, and such doubts thus apply to the commitments made by the current Administration when it is replaced. Since coming to power, the Israeli Government has not limited its positions to undermining the peace process. It has chosen the exact opposite path to that of peace. It has increasingly diversified its attacks against Lebanon; it has bombed cities teeming with civilians and has planted explosive devices in many parts of southern Lebanon in order to incite enmity among the Lebanese and cast aspersions on the role of the Lebanese resistance. However, such attempts, contrary to Israel’s objectives, have only solidified unity among the Lebanese. They have strengthened the resolve of the Lebanese resistance to confront Israeli occupation more than ever before. In the occupied Palestinian territories, the pace of settlement activities has escalated, including a sharing of roles between the Israeli Government and extremist settlers, in order to expropriate more land, destroy homes and maintain the drive to judaize East Jerusalem. In our occupied Syrian Golan, the policy of entrenching Israeli occupation has also been escalated to the point that the Israeli Knesset recently voted on a bill entrenching the occupation and impeding withdrawal from the Golan, in clear defiance of Security Council resolution 497 (1981). This has been accompanied by an intensification of Jewish settlement activity with the aim of swelling the numbers of settlers in the Golan and undermining the chances for peace. That is a flagrant violation of the 1949 Geneva Conventions and the first additional Protocol thereof. The Golan is Syrian land — it always was and always will be. The Israelis will have to leave it sooner or later. 21 We, the Arabs, have championed just and comprehensive peace and consider it a strategic choice. For such a choice to be realistic and supported by the people, it requires full Israeli withdrawal from the occupied Syrian Golan to the line of 4 June 1967, as well as from southern Lebanon and the western Bekaa, in implementation of Security Council resolution 425 (1978). It must guarantee the legitimate national rights of the Palestinian people, including those to self-determination and their own independent State. Syria has always stressed its keen wish to establish a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East. Syria once again expresses its grave concern at the serious obstacle that Israel has placed on the road to that goal in order to prevent the establishment of the zone by refusing to adhere to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). This intransigent Israeli position does great harm to the credibility and universality of the Treaty. We believe that the measures and arrangements to establish a nuclear- weapon-free zone in the Middle East, as called for by United Nations resolutions, require Israel, the only State in the region possessing nuclear facilities and stockpiles, to adhere to the NPT and place all its nuclear establishments under the full-scope safeguards regime of the International Atomic Energy Agency. It must further destroy its entire stockpile of nuclear weapons. At a time when the urgent need to intensify international efforts towards a just and comprehensive peace in the Middle East is very clear, some States of the region are engaging in military cooperation similar to an alliance and have recently declared their intention to conduct military manoeuvres in the eastern Mediterranean. Such manoeuvres would be a threat to the peace and safety of neighbouring States as well as to the stability of the region. Syria supports all the efforts being made to eliminate tension in various regions of the world and to resolve standing problems. In this context, Syria underlines its concern for the unity and territorial integrity of Iraq. Syria calls for easing the suffering of the brotherly people of Iraq, while Iraq is required to implement the remaining Security Council resolutions in a manner ensuring a just solution to the issue of Kuwaiti prisoners. We also hope that there will be a positive response to the initiatives of the League of Arab States and the Organization of African Unity, as well as towards the flexibility shown by the Libyan Government to resolve the Lockerbie crisis. We would also like to see the embargo against Libya — a fellow Arab country — lifted, as well as an end to the suffering caused to the brotherly Libyan people by that embargo. Syria supports measures to guarantee peace and security in the Korean peninsula. We also wish to express our support for the aspirations of the Korean people for reunification. We further hope that serious efforts will be made to provide assistance to the Korean people to overcome its economic crisis. Syria stresses the need to take the necessary steps as soon as possible to lift the economic, trade and financial embargo which has been imposed on Cuba for more than 30 years. Syria is following with concern the severe conflicts afflicting some African countries. We call on the international community to make the necessary efforts and to endeavour to find solutions to these disputes, in close cooperation with the Organization of African Unity, in order to promote peace and stability on the African continent. The international community is further called upon to provide assistance of all kinds to enable African States to eradicate the scourge of poverty and achieve development. Among its primary purposes, the Charter of the United Nations provides for the maintenance of international peace and security; the fostering between nations of international relations based on respect for the principle of equal rights and self-determination of peoples; international cooperation in the economic, social, cultural and humanitarian fields; and the promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all. It also calls for non-interference in the internal affairs of States. The Charter encouraged the establishment of specialized agencies in the field of international cooperation. It entrusted the General Assembly with setting out regulations governing the appointment by the Secretary- General of the employees of the international Organization. Syria underlines the importance of strict adherence to the purposes and principles of the United Nations during the process of reform of the Organization in order to enable it to respond to the needs and aspirations of its Members in the twenty-first century. We believe that promoting development is among the first priorities of the United Nations. There is therefore a need to underscore the right to development. 22 Syria expresses its concern about any weakening of the role and working methods of the General Assembly. We call upon the General Assembly to perform its effective role in accordance with the Charter. In this context, we believe that the changes in the international arena and the significant increase in the number of Member States of the United Nations call for a review of the composition and working methods of the Security Council. Checks and criteria must be put in place to prevent the arbitrary use of the veto power. Thus the democracy and transparency which are required in its decision-making would be enhanced, thereby leading to more fairness and balance, as well as to non-selectivity in the implementation of the Council’s resolutions. Although this is an urgent matter, we believe that, in order to reach general agreement on this question, the reforms of the Security Council must not be subjected to a specific time- frame. The Secretary-General recently presented his proposals to reform the United Nations. We appreciate the efforts he made in preparing his proposals. However, proceeding from our concern to strengthen the United Nations capacity to shoulder the responsibilities entrusted to it, we would have wished to have seen in the proposals more attention given to the fundamental role of the Organization in promoting international cooperation for development. We would have liked the proposals to exclude any measures likely to affect those programmes and activities related to development issues and poverty eradication in developing and least developed countries. Human rights are a very important issue, which we believe must continue to be pursued as an independent issue in order to avoid any overlap with other United Nations activities. Such an amalgamation of issues would only further the opportunities to politicize human rights issues and their use as a means to exert specific pressures, to impose preconditions or to intervene in the internal affairs of States. Humanity has pinned great hopes on the United Nations, an Organization born of a world war which was destructive to great hopes. Humanity entertained the expectation that the Organization would succeed in outlawing war, ending all forms of aggression and championing the right of peoples to self-determination. It further expected it to succeed in achieving development and in eradicating poverty and underdevelopment. Today, as we stand at the threshold of a new century, we all face great challenges which require us to find the appropriate enabling environment for future generations to live in peace, security and cooperation within the context of international relations free of violence and confrontation. This is the hope of our peoples and this is what we must strive to reach as we look forward to a better future that is more just and more humane for the benefit of all mankind.  ﻿On behalf of the delegation of Burundi, which we have the distinguished honour to lead in the work of this session of the General Assembly, and on our own behalf, allow us first and foremost to extend the friendly greetings of the President of the Republic of Burundi, Mr. Pierre Buyoya, as well as those of the Government and all the people of Burundi. The delegation of Burundi is delighted at the unanimous choice of the President of the fifty-second session of the General Assembly. His lofty, moral and intellectual qualities, his long and rich diplomatic experience and his in-depth knowledge of the current concerns of the planet no doubt augur well for a ringing success in his term of office. Our country offers him its full support. At the same time, we would like to extend our sincere congratulations to his predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia, who so brilliantly conducted the work of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. We would also like to pay enthusiastic tribute to Mr. Kofi Annan, Secretary-General of the United Nations, for his continuing tireless efforts to promote the ideals of this world Organization. Thanks to the institutions and bodies of the United Nations system, millions of refugees and persons displaced or scattered in the wake of internal conflicts, national disasters and other emergency situations have benefited from substantial humanitarian assistance, particularly in Africa. The Great Lakes region has received special attention in this regard. Aside from peacekeeping and humanitarian relief operations on the African continent, it is important to underscore and welcome the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative on Africa. I would like to take this opportunity to launch an appeal to all our bilateral and multilateral partners to mobilize the necessary resources for the financing of this Initiative, whose fundamental importance for the development of Africa is obvious. For four years Burundi has been going through an unprecedented crisis that has been marked by numerous crimes and acts of genocide. Aside from the blind extermination of hundreds of thousands of human lives, armed groups have attacked the economic, health, educational and administrative infrastructures of the country. In short, the political change that occurred on 25 26 July 1996 took place just in time to save the country from genocide and nightmare. Contrary to what a certain sector of international public opinion would have us believe, the vast majority of the population of Burundi welcomed the new direction of the country with great enthusiasm and relief. New hope was born with this change of political regime. The results in the area of security were immediate. Aside from certain areas of insecurity related to sporadic attacks by armed groups, peace and security have returned to almost the entire national territory. But the population remains vigilant because terrorist bands have not yet disarmed. Essentially, they use the territory of Tanzania to launch massacres against women, children, men and the elderly. These repeated attacks are at the source of the displacement and regrouping of populations. The Government has never decreed any regroupment policy. While the camps of displaced persons have not attracted particular attention, the so-called regroupment camps have stirred controversy in certain circles of international opinion that have been exploited and misinformed by terrorist groups such as the National Council for the Defence of Democracy (CNDD). Today these centres of the dispossessed are gradually being closed. Day by day, people who have been displaced or regrouped are returning to their villages of origin when security conditions permit. A recent report indicates that in less than a month there will practically be no regrouped persons in the country’s central provinces, which were the most affected. We must, however, recognize that problems persist. At the humanitarian level the afflicted people live in deplorable conditions. Overcrowding, lack of sanitation, malnutrition, lack of health care and all sorts of epidemics are the daily plight of the dispossessed. My Government wishes to place on record its real appreciation for all the support of our bilateral and multilateral partners to relieve the misery of these deprived populations. We appeal again to the international community to increase humanitarian assistance to the afflicted populations in order to meet their food, health and clothing needs. In order to ensure the reintegration of the victims, the Government appeals for assistance for reconstruction and economic recovery. In the context of its vast social reintegration effort, the Government of Burundi invites all Burundi refugees, wherever they may be, to return voluntarily to their country. It is prepared to welcome them with open arms and in conditions of complete security and dignity. I would like to take this opportunity to request the assistance of neighbouring countries, in particular Tanzania, as well as of international organizations such as the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, to facilitate the return of our exiled brothers. In the past year more than 160,000 Burundi refugees have voluntarily returned to their home provinces. Since the political changes of 25 July 1996, the principal objectives of the Government of the Republic of Burundi have been to ward off the spectre of genocide, to restore State authority, to organize a peace process based on dialogue, to reintegrate afflicted people, to rebuild and revitalize the economy and to democratize institutions. At present the great majority of the Burundi population is determined to work to restore peace. This is why the widespread genocide that was foreseen, and began, has been contained and stopped. I can today affirm in all certainty that this danger has been averted. To the dismay of certain prophets of doom and apocalypse, the Burundi nation has not fallen apart either. The peace process under way in Burundi is aimed precisely at laying the foundation for a lasting peace. Since the beginning of this year the Government has initiated throughout the country a series of workshops in preparation for a genuine national debate, with the goal of leading the Burundi people to discuss frankly all the country’s problems. The governmental team is now engaged in speeding up the peace process, and several initiative have been taken in this regard. A round table bringing together all the internal actors has just taken place in the centre of the country. It is in this context as well that the Burundi peace conference, originally planned to take place in Geneva under the auspices of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) from 30 June to 2 July 1997 was held at UNESCO headquarters from 26 to 28 September 1997. Some 50 Burundi political actors, along with about 30 international observers, took part in those meetings. That conference was designed to involve all the Burundi people, at home and abroad, in political dialogue, taking into account different political and socio- professional leanings. Even those who chose the route of violence participated in that forum in great numbers. That 27 event thus marks an important step in the Burundi peace process. Despite the visible difficulties, the Government of Burundi is determined to negotiate with the various actors in Burundi — including the armed factions — without exception. Thus, the phase of the peace negotiations that could not be held in Arusha on 25 August 1997 as originally planned — as a result of difficulties connected to the mediation arrangements — are going to be resumed very shortly. Consultations are under way on this matter, and, true to its programme, the Government will participate. In this context, I would like to recall that my Government asked for a postponement of the 25 August 1997 meeting only so that it could better consult with its partners, improve the mediation arrangements and find a location more amenable to dialogue, outside of Tanzania. After that postponement the President of the United Republic of Tanzania called for a summit of the Heads of State of the region in Dar es Salaam, which was held on 3 and 4 September 1997. The Government of the Republic of Burundi, which was not invited, expresses its regret that it had no role in that summit. It considers that at these meetings devoted entirely to the Burundi conflict its presence is indispensable so that it can provide information and explanations that will enlighten the Heads of State of the region, in the interest of peace in Burundi. The Burundi peace process must involve dialogue and negotiation among the Burundi people. At the conclusion of the talks, a negotiated transitional government will be put in place to lead the country in the direction pointed by the Burundi people themselves. The ultimate objective is to put in place democratic institutions that all can trust. The Government of the Republic of Burundi again expresses its concern regarding the mediation arrangements and the host country for the mediation. No process can lead to peace in Burundi if it is not developed in cooperation with the Burundi people and carried out with their complete agreement. It is thus imperative that there be greater consultations between the mediator and the Burundi people — in particular with the Government that is charged with leading the country and that has the weighty responsibility of extracting it from crisis. To increase the confidence of all the parties in the mediation and to follow the universally recognized rules for such undertakings, the Government of the Republic of Burundi believes that the mediator must be supported by other personalities and by experts in the techniques of conflict resolution — people who have no personal stake in the Burundi problem. The Burundi peace process will remain stalled, if Tanzania — the mediating country, the host country of the mediation — having taken over the Burundi Embassy in Dar es Salaam, continues to play the triple role of host country for the armed factions responsible for the genocide in Burundi, promoter of sanctions against Burundi and overweening mediator. The objection of the Government of the Republic of Burundi to the holding of the talks in Tanzania is thus easily understood. It is based essentially on the tension that has been created by the refugee camps that Tanzania has set up all along its border with Burundi. Many of them are armed, and from them deadly raids are regularly launched on Burundi territory. This tension has been exacerbated by the hostile campaign waged by the Tanzanian authorities in several African capitals precisely on the eve of the opening of the talks, originally set to take place in Arusha on 25 August 1997. Further, the Government of the Republic of Burundi does not understand why the fifth summit of the Heads of the State of the region requested it to halt the process now under way. Such a halt would unleash disorder and public insecurity in the country. No Burundi citizen would be able to understand how the judicial system could punish minor infractions while at the same time it was unable to try cases of political assassination and acts of genocide. The halting of legal proceedings under way and scheduled is thus unacceptable. The ideal is to assure each defendant a just and fair trial in which the right to a defence is guaranteed. The Government has already made a commitment to do all it can to that end, and we thank the United Nations for its assistance in this area. In this regard, the establishment of an international criminal tribunal for Burundi, which the Government of Burundi has requested of the United Nations, is now urgently needed, both to combat impunity and to give the peace process now under way a chance. Under no pretext whatsoever should any criminal, nor anyone responsible for genocide, be shielded. It is clear that the Burundi peace process is being held back by numerous constraints. 28 My Government’s efforts to restore peace and security have been compromised by the completely unjust and illegal blockade that has been maintained by neighbouring countries since 31 July 1997. Paradoxically, the supporters of these inhumane economic sanctions claim that they wish to restore peace in Burundi. However, those who know my country know that it is poor and landlocked and has been beset by almost four years of war. To support sanctions by word and by deed is tantamount to killing more children and more disaster victims through hunger, disease, poverty and war. No neighbouring country should adopt such a stance, especially when we take account of the concern that my country has always shown for its neighbours when they were confronted with the same problems. The measures to mitigate the economic sanctions agreed in Arusha last 16 April have not been implemented in their entirety. Difficulties remain, particularly in respect of air transport and the supply of humanitarian fuel. How then, under these circumstances, can we speak of mitigation when the released goods cannot reach their beneficiaries? From this rostrum, my delegation calls once again on the neighbouring countries in the subregion responsible for the blockade to please lift these inhumane and degrading sanctions immediately. It strongly urges the international community to do everything in its power to make these countries understand the pressing need to lift these unjust sanctions, which only impoverish the poorest and enrich the richest — measures that ravage the most vulnerable sectors of society. I should like to remind the Assembly that my Government has already met all the demands made by the countries of the subregion, which served as a pretext for the imposition of the sanctions. These include the restoration of the National Assembly and of the political parties and the commencement of negotiations with the rebel army. Unfortunately, at the risk of hampering the process, each summit gives rise to new conditions. That is why the quest for peace in Burundi often resembles the movement of Sisyphus’ stone. My country, moreover, continues to be confronted with repeated border attacks by armed terrorist groups that are based in a neighbouring country, Tanzania. These criminal bands recruit in camps housing Burundi refugees along the common border, in flagrant violation of the Geneva Convention relating to the Status of Refugees. Some of the rebels are based 15 kilometres from the Burundi-Tanzania border. From there, it takes but a step to infiltrate Burundi. In that one little step, they can massacre — as they did last April — several innocent Burundi people. In the face of this situation, my Government urges the United Nations firmly to condemn these terrorist organizations and to bring pressure to bear on those countries receiving them to separate genuine refugees from tribal terrorist groups. In order to promote the necessary communication in the context of a political dialogue, we ask Tanzania once again to liberate the Embassy of Burundi in Dar Es Salaam in order to facilitate diplomatic relations current negotiations and the settlement of the question of refugees. The Great Lakes region is experiencing an unprecedented crisis. One of the main reasons for this upheaval is doubtless the problem of refugees. The spiral of violence that is engulfing our subregion has prompted a vast trans-border movement of peoples fleeing warfare and insecurity in their country or origin. Some are innocent people who fear for their physical security, but some belong to criminal groups. Faithful to its policy of dialogue and concertation, the Government of the Republic of Burundi will spare no effort to initiate contacts with its neighbours in order to explore together appropriate ways and means to resolve this situation. The goal of this endeavour is to work together to restore a climate of security on our common borders, in keeping with our tradition of good-neighbourliness. Africa is currently facing numerous challenges. A low rate of economic growth; intense demographic pressures; a decline in agricultural production; the continuing decrease in bilateral and multilateral aid — the result of new alliances; the burden of debt servicing; and socio-political conflicts — these are the many pitfalls along the path to Africa’s development. Our continent will never achieve its development if it does not meet these challenges, which is why my country resolutely favours consolidating regional and subregional entities, which would represent a crucial stage for progress in Africa. In this connection, we welcome the System-wide Special Initiative on Africa, launched officially on 15 March 1996. We firmly support and encourage this ambitious programme, which was set up to support our continent in its development efforts. 29 Our continent, Africa, is doubtless one of the most turbulent areas on the planet. The efforts to democratize political institutions on which so many hopes were pinned have, regrettably, experienced dramatic setbacks as a result of factors linked with ethnicity, a lack of preparedness and a lack of flexibility. With respect to the Great Lakes region, Burundi welcomes the positive changes occurring in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, as they can contribute to improving the political situation and promote trade throughout the region. We can therefore only encourage this friendly and brotherly country to move ahead. We also urge the international community to support it. Rwanda, our neighbour, is making a great effort at stabilization and reconciliation. International solidarity vis- à-vis this country should also be encouraged. At the same time, it is deplorable to note that Congo (Brazzaville), a brotherly country, has also been the site of fratricidal confrontation. In that context, we welcome the efforts made by the President of Gabon, His Excellency Mr. Omar Bongo; by the Special Representative of the Secretaries-General of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity (OAU), Mr. Mohamed Sahnoun; and by other mediators, national and international, in their efforts to find a negotiated settlement to the Congo problem. My Government encourages our Angolan brothers and sisters to complete the implementation of the Lusaka peace agreements. Following a protracted conflict, Liberia has successfully organized democratic elections with the support of the international community. We wish that country peace and stability. In the Middle East, the deadlock of the peace process between Israel and Palestine can be overcome only if hard- liners on both sides show greater flexibility. My Government has taken note of the report of the Secretary-General on the reform of the Organization. Insofar as it seeks greater efficiency and strives for mobilizing means not to maintain a hefty administration but rather to achieve the goal of international solidarity, particularly in the area of development, my Government supports that reform. My delegation shares with the Secretary-General his concern for efficiency and economy: efficiency in an administration that is streamlined, and efficiency in efforts to combat poverty as well as in efforts at capacity- building, particularly in the area of development. With respect to Security Council reform, my Government supports the provisions taken in the context of the last OAU Summit, which met in Harare, Zimbabwe. The terms of the common African position have recently been communicated by the Chairman of the OAU in this forum. Moreover, the developing countries must be properly represented in the Council. Beyond the question of representation, my delegation is convinced that reform of the Security Council must above all involve its methods of work and its adaptation to the requirements of today’s realities. In keeping with our position as stated during this session of the General Assembly, my Government firmly supports the establishment of an international criminal court that would be entrusted with prosecuting and punishing persons responsible for genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. Despite the many difficulties that my country, Burundi, has faced since the national tragedy of October 1993, it has always sought to be present at the annual sessions of the General Assembly of our Organization. This assiduous presence attests to our unfaltering attachment to the lofty ideals promoted and defended by the United Nations. Despite the political and economic crisis exacerbated by the blockade abusively imposed upon my people, the Government of the Republic of Burundi has been able to remit an amount of $116,000 dollars since April 1997 as its contribution to the regular budget of the United Nations. Despite the difficult economic climate, Burundi will do its utmost to continue, to the extent that it is able, to honour its commitments and to support our Organization. Before concluding, I should like once again to recall that Burundi is resolved to emerge from this crisis affecting our country, and will do so through dialogue. The sooner the next session is programmed, the better. We hope that the obstacles that prevented the meeting of 25 August 1997 will be overcome. My country supports the principle of expanding the Security Council, but the methodology which will be adopted to that end is of decisive importance. We hope that all this reform will imbue the United Nations system 30 with the youthful vitality and energy necessary to redress the shortcomings of the past, to consolidate the achievements of the present and to lay solid and promising foundations for the beginning of the next millennium. ﻿It gives me great pleasure to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session. I am confident that your extensive experience and extreme competence will positively contribute to the successful conduct of the proceedings of this session. I would like to assure you that the Iraqi delegation will do its best to cooperate with you and with your colleagues in discharging your responsibilities to bring the proceedings of this session to a successful conclusion. I would like also to pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Razali Ismail, for the incessant and sincere efforts which he made to crown the proceedings of the last session with success. He has earned our appreciation. The success of the United Nations in the exercise of its desired role depends primarily on the proper application of the principles and provisions of the Charter, because it is the only instrument that can achieve the goals for which this Organization was established: the endeavour to achieve an international community based on respect for the sovereignty, freedom and independence of peoples and their empowerment to achieve their goals of economic and social development. The reform of the United Nations structures and mechanisms in a proper way that ensures justice to all Member States and geographical groups will enable it to discharge its responsibilities in a manner consistent with the purposes, principles and provisions enshrined in the Charter. We believe that the reform process of the Organization should not be restricted to the management aspect, important as it is. More important, there should be a common political will to redress the real and effective balance in the work of the Organization and to prevent its machinery from being used for private political objectives and purposes of certain super-Powers. Above all, one should pay attention to the dangers inherent in one international pole breaking loose and trying to dominate the world. In this context, Iraq welcomes the communiqué issued after the meeting of President Yeltsin of Russia and President Jiang Zemin of China in Moscow on 22 April 1997, which clearly called for the rejection of hegemony by any State over the world’s destinies, of the exercise of power politics or of the monopoly of international issues. The Russian-Chinese communiqué also called for the establishment of a multi-polar international system. We in Iraq are proud to note that our leader, President Saddam Hussain, called 20 years ago for a multi-polar world. The United Nations should not be controlled by the rich, who are a small minority in the world. Among the basic purposes of the United Nations, according to the Charter, is the promotion of the economic and social advancement of all peoples. Based on that, we consider it necessary to avoid marginalizing developing countries and denying them the opportunities and potentialities for economic and scientific development. While we are talking about the reform of the Organization and its mechanisms and the review of its role, we should not overlook the basic realities of the evolution of the international community from a small group of States that are homogeneous in their concepts and interests to a community of a global nature, necessarily heterogeneous and varying in all its perceptions and interests. This objective reality makes it imperative for all of us to employ our common energies to review the charters and mechanisms that we have inherited to make them consistent with the objective reality of the international community in order to achieve the common and public good, not simply the interests of the minority. One example that comes to mind in this regard is the area of human rights. Finally, we must recognize the need for deliberation, consultation and extensive negotiation on what reform steps should be approved. A prerequisite for the success of any step in this common effort is the presence of a real consensus among States, not the voices speaking under pressure and threats to their respective interests. 6 For more than seven years, Iraq has been suffering under an unjust blockade the like of which has never been witnessed in human history. We have more than once stated clearly and unequivocally before the General Assembly the steps that Iraq had undertaken to implement the resolutions of the Security Council on the so-called Gulf crisis, particularly resolution 687 (1991), so that the blockade imposed upon it could be lifted. Iraq has carried out what was required of it under these resolutions. In the context of working with the Special Commission and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) for the implementation of section C of resolution 687 (1991), on proscribed weapons, Iraq has carried out all the substantive obligations set out therein. Iraq has never tarried in doing everything possible to emphasize its keenness to deal even with the very minute details so that the Security Council could move to carry out its corresponding obligations towards Iraq by lifting the blockade. Our work in this regard is of special importance. We should pause to shed light upon it. The full implementation to date of the substantive obligations imposed on Iraq with regard to banned weapons is an established fact. Despite all the rumours, the truth is that Iraq no longer has any banned weapons, equipment, machinery or materials. The system of continuous observation established in Iraq by the Special Commission and the International Atomic Energy Agency is working effectively and has been since August 1994, covering all the territory of Iraq. When the new Chairman of the Special Commission, Ambassador Richard Butler, assumed his office, we welcomed his statements in which he affirmed that he would follow an objective, scientific and technical approach in dealing with what the Commission views as remaining issues, in accordance with the requirements clearly established by resolution 687 (1991). We affirmed our full readiness to cooperate with Ambassador Butler. We agreed with him, during his first visit to Baghdad last July, on an intensive common work programme, which we have actively carried out. In fact, substantial advances have been made in this common activity, and we look forward to the semi-annual report by the Special Commission, which we hope will be submitted to the Security Council in a few days. We hope it will equitably reflect the progress achieved and will open the door for the Security Council to start implementing paragraph 22 of resolution 687 (1991), which means the beginning of the lifting of the blockade on Iraq. The comprehensive blockade imposed on Iraq is the most extensive and cruel boycott system ever imposed by the Security Council throughout its history. It covers and affects, in theory and in practice, every aspect of life. From our practical experience, we are convinced that the insistence on the perpetuation of the blockade against Iraq is not related to the fulfilment by Iraq of its obligations. It is rather a systematic plan to inflict severe damage on Iraq by putting an end to its development potential and by destroying its basic economic infrastructure to fulfil the selfish interests of an unjust super-Power. The whole world has felt the magnitude of the wilful damage and destruction inflicted on Iraq by the continuation of the blockade, which is contrary to the purposes for which the United Nations was established, which purposes have been emphasized in its numerous conferences. International organizations, humanitarian missions and United Nations agencies have warned of the dangers besetting the people of Iraq as a result of the continued blockade, particularly the dangerous effects on women and children. The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), for instance, has confirmed in its latest study in March 1997 that 27.5 per cent of Iraqi children under five years of age suffer from chronic malnutrition and that the most threatened segment is children under two years old, due to malnutrition and the incidence of contagious diseases. Furthermore, the environment in Iraq has suffered extensive damage because of indiscriminate bombing by the United States and some of its allies, which was aimed at power stations, sewage systems and factories, which we have not been able to rebuild fully because of the blockade. Scientific studies and research carried out by foreign researchers and scientists have unequivocally confirmed that the United States used banned weapons and ammunition enriched with depleted uranium in its military operations against Iraq. This exposed vast tracts of Iraqi territory to contamination by deadly toxic materials. Numerous cases of hitherto unfamiliar illnesses have been recorded, such as congenital deformities of foetuses, bone deformities and many cases of leukaemia among children. We heard many allegations from the representatives of the United States and Britain before Iraq agreed to deal with the oil-for-food formula. The representatives of both countries shed crocodile tears and alleged that they were concerned about the suffering of the Iraqi people. They 7 said that they had come up with Security Council resolution 986 (1995) to alleviate this suffering. that resolution was not balanced. We and the United Nations Secretary-General, in May 1996, were able to reach a memorandum of understanding to implement the resolution in a balanced manner. When implementation started — that is to say, when the implementation of the memorandum started — in December 1996, the American and the British conduct was seen for what it really is. The oil-for-food-and-medicine formula is a temporary and modest formula that meets only a small fraction of Iraq’s needs. Nevertheless, this formula has encountered and continues to encounter many major obstacles and difficulties, which the United States and Britain in particular try to impose with a view to impeding the proper and effective implementation of the memorandum of understanding. The conduct of the representatives of these two countries in the Committee established pursuant to Security Council resolution 661 (1990) has led to an accumulation of contracts which were rejected or suspended on flimsy pretexts. This has caused a huge break in the smooth flow of the approval of such contracts and has thereby delayed the delivery and distribution of materials to the Iraqi people. To date, despite the fact that the implementation of the first period ended over three months ago, Iraq has received only 25 per cent of the medicine required and has not received any materials at all up to now relating to agriculture, education, water or sewage, or any spare parts for electricity-generating power stations. Now more than ever is the time for the United Nations to discharge its responsibility with regard to its obligations under the Charter, not only to the people of Iraq, but to the international community. The United Nations has a duty to carry out a professional and objective review of the provisions of the blockade imposed on Iraq in order to implement paragraph 22 of Security Council resolution 687 (1991) as a first step towards lifting the blockade completely. All the discussions that have taken place in the United Nations, in specialized working groups and committees, and in particular in the Special Committee on the Charter of the United Nations and on the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization, have stressed that sanctions should be an exceptional measure used by the United Nations in special circumstances and in accordance with the Charter. They have also stressed that such sanctions should not be based merely on political expediency, but rather should be firmly based on international law; that they should be implemented according to the principles of justice and international law; that they should not serve individual or factional interests; that in their implementation, consideration should be given to the human suffering that they cause; and that a time limit should be set for their lifting. Such a serious measure should not be imposed without setting a precise time for its lifting. United Nations responsibility does not end there. The United Nations must put an end to all hostile practices against Iraq by the United States, which persists in its continuous attempts to interfere in Iraq’s internal affairs with a view to causing instability and insecurity and in carrying out operations to change its nationalist regime; such practices are considered criminal acts even under its own domestic law. Statements made by senior American officials confirm the hostile American policy towards Iraq. Members of the United Nations are not unaware of the article published in the Washington Post on 26 June 1997 or of the information contained in the ABC television programme aired on 26 June 1997. This information confirmed that the United States was involved in conspiracies against the nationalist regime in Iraq. This involvement is an official policy, approved by the American President, and more that $100 million has been appropriated for it. The Central Intelligence Agency has been charged with its implementation. Following that publicity, the policy was acknowledged by an official spokesman of the American State Department in a press briefing on 27 June. The United Nations resolutions on Iraq affirm that all States have an obligation to respect Iraq’s sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence. The United States is carrying out a policy of its own making, which runs counter to the provisions of the Charter and of the resolutions referred to. I hope that Members of the United Nations are not ignorant of the fact that among the means of achieving the declared objectives of this hostile policy towards Iraq is the imposition of no-fly zones in northern and southern Iraq. This is an illegal act that is contrary to Security Council resolutions. It is a unilateral military act by the Governments of the United States and Britain — a clear application of brute power politics against our country. We demand that the United Nations deplore and condemn unilateral policies based on the logic of brute force, opportunism, double standards and hegemony. 8 We are demanding no more than the legal and proper application of Security Council resolutions in accordance with the purposes and principles of the Charter. We believe that there is a collective duty to take joint action to evaluate in an equitable manner Iraq’s fulfilment of its obligations. This responsibility rests first and foremost with the members of the Security Council because collectively they bear responsibility for any imbalance caused by the unilateral positions taken by the United States and Britain. We are eager to establish excellent relations with neighbouring countries. We have affirmed on more than one occasion the importance of dialogue in order to arrive at the best solutions to problems affecting relations between the countries of the region. Unfortunately, we have not received the required response from certain parties, largely because of interference by external Powers that have nothing to do with the reality of the interests of the States of the region. We note that, unfortunately, our neighbour, Turkey, is indulging in dangerous policies that run counter to the deep historical, religious and human relations between Iraq and Turkey. Turkey has repeatedly continued to violate our sovereignty, interfere in our internal affairs and invade our territory, on the basis of flimsy pretexts. We have discussed the situation with our neighbour, Turkey, on several occasions in the past. The most recent discussion was with the Under-Secretary of the Turkish Ministry for Foreign Affairs, which took place on 15 September 1997 in Baghdad. During those discussions we explained that the solution to the Kurdish problem inside Turkey could not be achieved by committing armed aggression against Iraq, or by interfering in its internal affairs, in collaboration with foreign Powers — the United States and Britain — but rather by fully observing the principle of mutual respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the two countries and by cooperation between their Governments to ensure security and stability on both sides of the international border. We have warned Turkey of the serious and negative consequences of its policies for relations between the two countries and for Turkey’s own interests. Many countries in and outside the region, and international organizations, foremost among them the League of Arab States, have condemned the new Turkish aggression against Iraq, which began on 22 September 1997. We strongly condemn this new military aggression, which is a flagrant violation of Iraq’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. We demand that Turkey immediately withdraw its invading forces from our country and refrain from repeating such aggressive military practices, which contradict good-neighbourly relations, the Charter and international law. We hold Turkey fully responsible internationally for its acts of aggression inside Iraq. We reserve our full right to respond to these acts and to assert our other legitimate rights under international law that arise as a result of Turkey’s responsibility for those acts. We are also keen on establishing good-neighbourly relations with Iran, based on mutual respect for sovereignty, territorial integrity and non-interference in internal affairs. On 8 August 1997 President Saddam Hussain issued a call to the new Iranian Government to show its good intentions towards Iraq by carrying out its established obligations, foremost of which is the release of Iraqi prisoners of war and the return of the aircraft entrusted to it. He also affirmed that Iraq would reciprocate each step taken by Iran in this regard by taking two balanced steps: one corresponding to the Iranian step and another in line with our deep sense of humanitarian, regional and international responsibility to encourage the taking of successive, continual steps to ensure that regional security, mutual respect and balanced interests rest firmly on their proper foundation in such a way that benefits the peoples of the region. It is unfortunate that our neighbour, Iran, does not match our inclination and prefers to continue to exploit the conditions of the unjust blockade imposed against Iraq and to exploit the imposition of no-fly zones by the United States and Britain in northern and southern Iraq to enable it to violate Iraqi sovereignty, penetrate its airspace and commit one military aggression after another. The most recent of such acts was the bombing by eight Iranian military aircraft of positions inside Iraqi territory, in the governorates of Diala and El-Kut on 29 September 1997. Iran and another State are taking advantage of the illegal air embargo, imposed on northern and southern Iraq by the United States and its collaborators, to violate Iraq’s sovereignty, penetrate its airspace and commit continuous military aggression on its territory. The continuation of this illegal air embargo constitutes an ongoing threat to Iraq’s sovereignty and security, not only from America and Britain, but also from Iran and other States. This situation, in which acts of aggression are repeatedly committed, means that the explicit United Nations pledges in relevant Security Council resolutions to safeguard Iraq’s sovereignty and territorial integrity have become a mere dead letter. It is time that these 9 pledges be honoured. If it does otherwise, the United Nations will have violated its own pledges. Iraq is an ancient country with a history going back more than 7,000 years. The Iraqi people, who contributed immensely to human civilization, will remain in charge of their own affairs, independent in their choices and able to overcome these crises. As we stand at the threshold of the twenty-first century, we look forward to seeing the United Nations enabled to discharge its basic responsibilities to carry out the purposes embodied in the Charter.  ﻿First of all, I should like to extend my warmest congratulations to you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-second 8 session. As an architect of stability, you have played a substantial role in securing the recent conclusion of a number of major agreements with Ukraine’s neighbouring countries. I am certain that both that experience and the experience you have acquired in the field of international relations and at the United Nations will be decisive factors in leading this session to a successful outcome. I should like to assure you, Sir, of our full support. I should also like to thank your predecessor, Ambassador Razali, for the skill and commitment with which he led our work at the last session of the General Assembly. I also wish to express my appreciation to our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the splendid work he has performed since taking office and, in particular, for his wide-ranging proposals for the reform of the United Nations, which he presented last 16 July. It is an honour for me to address this Assembly today on behalf of the European Union, which, like the United Nations, is seeking to change and renew itself in order to face more effectively the challenges of the new millennium. Globalization, with its emphasis on growing interdependence between nations and their economies, is bringing profound changes in international relations. A particular feature of this globalization is the genuine revolution in the field of information and communications technologies, which banishes any notion of geographical distance. Globalization, characterized by the acceleration of trade and financial flows and by increased market integration, is a source for both progress and fresh opportunities. However, it also raises some serious questions, even among the industrialized countries, which are experiencing a worrying rise in unemployment. We note at the same time that these developments are passing by many developing countries, which remain in great poverty. More than 1.5 billion people still live in absolute poverty. We cannot remain indifferent to this situation. We are particularly concerned by the growing inequality both within countries and between countries of the North and of the South, which is a dangerous source of further conflict and tension. Free of the threat of confrontation in a polarized world, we are faced today with a series of global problems both old and new: underdevelopment, population growth, increasingly large-scale migration, damage to the environment, the proliferation of weapons of all kinds, terrorism, ethnic conflict, drug trafficking, violence — the blind, hateful violence against innocent people that we witness nearly every day, for example in Algeria — and crime, often in forms never before encountered. In order to deal successfully with all these problems, it is essential that we continue to promote justice and solidarity between all countries and individuals as well as tolerance — I lay particular stress on “tolerance” — and respect for others and, above all, to strengthen cooperation between States on both the regional and the world levels. Progressive integration that respects national identity is a hallmark of the policy of the States members of the European Union. In scarcely more than 50 years, we have succeeded in developing in Europe a stability and a prosperity that the continent has never before experienced. The European Union is based on democracy as its political system and on a social market economy as its economic system. Our market economy is not a free-for- all; it is mitigated by considerations of social welfare. States retain full responsibility in the fields of health, education and social justice. Although this system requires constant adjustment, its principles are sacrosanct. The European Union, wishing to respond to the challenges of the post-cold-war world, proposes to take up three major challenges over the years ahead: the establishment of an economic and monetary union; the strengthening of its institutional base through the implementation of the Amsterdam Treaty; and preparation for further enlargement towards the eastern and southern Europe. Economic and monetary union is probably the most important and most ambitious economic and political project to be implemented by Europe since the beginning of the integration process. The Euro, as the single currency is to be known, will come into existence on 1 January 1999. Its introduction is the culmination of the lengthy process of implementation of the single market. The Euro is the logical consequence of the venture embarked upon with the European Community’s foundation in 1957. In order to prepare for the single currency, the States members of the European Union have successfully committed themselves to strengthening the coordination of their economic policies and the pursuit of healthier, more stable macroeconomic and budgetary policies. The creation of the Euro will help to achieve greater stability and a more balanced international monetary 9 system. It will help to reduce monetary uncertainty and will give a boost to the development of trade, investment and, hence, growth and employment both at the European and the world levels. The Heads of State or Government of the European Union reached political agreement on 17 June this year on a new treaty for Europe, the Amsterdam Treaty. This Treaty will be submitted for signature by plenipotentiaries in two weeks’ time. The Amsterdam Treaty marks a further step in the building of Europe and opens the way for the launching of the enlargement process. It provides for greater consistency in the external action of the Union, and will enable it to anticipate crises more effectively and to provide a more efficient protection of its economic interests. It emphasizes the defence and security dimension of the European Union, and clarifies in particular the Union’s role in respect of peacekeeping or peacemaking missions and humanitarian action. The new Treaty also provides for the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice, which will enable the Union to take more effective and coordinated action to combat terrorism, major crime and illegal immigration. Finally, a number of provisions underline the importance that the Union attaches to the promotion and to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. This coming December, the Union will take major decisions on future enlargement. Negotiations on accession should begin as early as possible next year. The international repercussions of the enlargement of the Union will far transcend the new frontiers of an enlarged Europe; this enlargement will add to Europe’s influence in the world, will provide the European Union with new neighbours and will make Europe a peaceful, more united and more stable area. In taking up these three challenges, the European Union member States seek to unite further in order to form a common front against the problem of unemployment and to take more effective action to combat organized crime, terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of every kind, to act more effectively to prevent major environmental damage and to ensure lasting growth while making the best possible use of the world’s resources. At the same time, the European Union is seeking to increase its influence over world affairs, promote values such as peace and security, democracy and human rights in a more effective manner, defend its conception of the social model and assert its presence on international markets. It is in that spirit, and in order to strengthen cooperation in the political, economic and financial fields, that the European Union is developing relations of partnership with all the countries of the world. A larger and more united European Union will also make a greater contribution towards development cooperation with the most disadvantaged countries. The development assistance of the European Union is part of a policy designed to roll back poverty and inequality in the world and to foster a sustainable development. The Union is already the largest contributor to the regular budget of the United Nations and to the budget for United Nations peacekeeping operations. It is also the largest international aid donor. The European Community and its member States provide over half the humanitarian aid dispensed worldwide and fund 50 per cent of international development aid. We provide 40 per cent of assistance for the reconstruction process in Bosnia and Herzegovina, nearly 60 per cent of international aid to Russia and to the republics of the former Soviet Union, half of the aid for the Palestinian territories and one third of the total aid for the Middle East. As in the past, the European Union describes its relations with third countries, together with its positions on and action in respect of areas of conflict throughout the world, in a memorandum that is circulated as an integral part of this address. I should like, however, to highlight a number of issues which continue to hold our full attention. The European Union continues to make a major contribution towards the consolidation of peace in all the countries of the former Yugoslavia. It wishes to develop its relations and to strengthen its cooperation with those countries to the extent that their respective Governments pursue a policy which respects the peace agreements concluded and which enables them to progress towards democracy, the rule of law, tolerance and respect for human rights and minorities. The European Union is concerned at the tardiness in implementing the peace agreements in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It emphasizes that the responsibility for such implementation rests with the parties themselves. We fully support the efforts of the High Representative, Mr. Carlos Westendorp. We pay a tribute to his deputy, Ambassador Gerd Wagner, to Mr. David 10 Krishkovich and to their colleagues who have given their lives in their commitment to peace. The European Union is determined to insist on the strict and full application of the peace agreements in Bosnia and Herzegovina and of the conclusions of the Sintra ministerial meeting. It is on the basis of such application that the European Union is willing to continue to contribute to the international reconstruction effort. It continues to attach great importance to the return of refugees and displaced persons and to demand the full cooperation of all parties with the International Criminal Tribunal as a necessary condition for a lasting reconciliation and a just peace. Without minimizing the difficulties in the Muslim Croat Federation, the European Union observes with concern the political crisis which has erupted in the Republika Srpska. It calls on all parties to respect the constitutional functioning of that entity and to take vigorous action to reform the police and to establish freedom of the press. We believe the holding of legislative elections under the supervision of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) constitutes the appropriate and democratic means for resolving the present political deadlock. The European Union welcomes the recent holding of municipal elections, on 13 and 14 September, with the participation of all the parties. These elections mark an important step in the process of democratization in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We appeal to the parties to respect the results as certified by the OSCE. The European Union also remains concerned by the situation in Kosovo, in particular by the lack of respect for human rights and the principles of the rule of law. Concerning Cyprus, the European Union regrets that the intercommunal talks under the aegis of the United Nations have failed to register progress. We call on the leaders of both communities to resume the talks, as proposed by Mr. Cordovez. We urge them and all parties concerned to work constructively and in good faith to promote the success of these talks. We reject any link between the talks and the membership negotiations with Cyprus. The latter will be initiated in accordance with the decisions taken by the European Council and will contribute positively towards the search for a political solution. The European Union recalled that Cypriot membership should benefit both communities and should help to bring about civil peace and reconciliation. In the Middle East, the peace process is at a worrisome standstill. The European Union calls on the peoples and Governments of the region to renew the spirit of mutual confidence which, at Madrid in 1991 and in Oslo in 1993, gave rise to the hope of a just, lasting and comprehensive peace. We call upon the Israeli and Palestinian leaders to continue the negotiations to further the implementation of the Interim Agreement and the Hebron agreement, and to resume talks on permanent status. We ask them once more to abstain from any unilateral action which may prejudice the issues relating to permanent status. The European Union firmly condemns the recent terrorist attacks in Jerusalem. We call on each side to show absolute determination in combating terrorism. We hope that cooperation in the field of security between Israel and the Palestinian Authority will be re-established and reinforced. To that end, we propose the setting up of a permanent security committee with the participation of the parties involved and, possibly, with that of the United States and the European Union. We urge both parties not to yield to blackmail by extremists bent on sabotaging the peace process. We ask that Israel discontinue certain measures taken with regard to the Palestinians which we consider to be counter- productive. In particular, we ask that Israel transfer all of the tax revenue owed to the Palestinian Authority. It is not in the interests of peace to weaken the Palestinian economy, administration and leadership and to feed the feelings of frustration and humiliation of an entire people. In the opinion of the European Union, peace remains the only strategic choice and the only lasting guarantee for the security and prosperity of both sides. The European Union will continue, through the efforts of its Special Envoy for the Middle East Peace Process, Ambassador Moratinos, as well as through its diplomatic relations, its economic commitment and its relations of friendship and trust with the various parties, to work with the parties concerned both within and outside the region, and especially with the United States, to relaunch the peace process. In Africa, major developments have occurred in recent months, notably in the Great Lakes region, which continues to experience serious problems. The European Union fully supports the efforts undertaken there, as elsewhere, by the Organization of African Unity (OAU) in close cooperation with the United Nations. It welcomes the action taken by both its special representative, 11 Mr. Ajello, and the Special Representative of the Secretaries-General of the United Nations and the OAU, Mr. Sahnoun. The international community must thus aim at establishing peace, at consolidating the process of national reconciliation in the countries concerned, at creating a climate conducive to the voluntary return of refugees and of facilitating the establishment of normal democratic life. We support the introduction of the rule of law, which should put an end to the climate of impunity prevailing in the region and encourage its economic and social recovery. The accession of the new authorities in the Democratic Republic of the Congo signals a very important change for the Congo and the whole of Africa. The European Union is aware of the scale of requirements for reconstruction in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and is willing to contribute its support for reconstruction. It confirms its readiness to resume cooperation with that Government on a gradual basis. The resumption of cooperation will depend, according to the conclusions of the European Council of Amsterdam, on the progress observed in the fields of human rights, democratization and the establishment of the rule of law. The European Union emphasizes the need for the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to cooperate fully with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in order to ensure the safe return of refugees, particularly to Rwanda. We also urge the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to cooperate fully with the United Nations in order that the mission investigating the allegations of massacres and other human rights violations can take place without impediment or delay. The European Union remains seriously worried by the situation in the Republic of Congo (Brazzaville) and is concerned that the parties to the conflict have so far failed to overcome their differences. We urge all the parties involved to cease hostilities and to work together to achieve national reconciliation and restore a peaceful society. We reiterate the Union’s full support for the mediation efforts undertaken by President Bongo of Gabon. The European Union condemns all violence in Burundi. It encourages the authorities of that country to accelerate the dismantling of the reassembly camps. We earnestly appeal to all parties in Burundi to embark definitively on the road towards negotiation and national reconciliation. The European Union is also concerned by the worsening insecurity in Rwanda’s north-western provinces, which affects all populations, without exception. The European Union welcomes the success of the monitoring mission in the Central African Republic, established under the Bangui Agreements. The European Union also continues to be concerned by the situation in Cambodia, which is likely to jeopardize the whole democratization process and the major efforts by the international community in support of that country’s reconstruction. We renew our support for the mediation efforts by the Association of South-East Asian Nations and welcome the constructive constitutional role played by His Majesty King Sihanouk in the search for a solution to this crisis. We appeal for an immediate end to all violence in Cambodia and reiterate the importance we attach to the holding of free pluralist elections in 1998. I would like now to take up several thematic questions. The tragic consequences of the indiscriminate spread and use of anti-personnel landmines have aroused genuine emotion in world public opinion in recent years. In October 1996 the Union, for its part, adopted a decision on joint action on anti-personnel landmines in which it expresses its determination to achieve the aim of totally eliminating such mines and of actively working towards the earliest possible conclusion of an effective international agreement on a worldwide ban on these weapons. We welcome the work done at the recent Oslo Diplomatic Conference, which resulted in the adoption of an international Convention. We shall also be pursuing the achievement of our aims at the Conference on Disarmament. Next 10 December will see the start of celebrations on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. That Declaration, adopted on 10 December 1948, and the two international pacts and other legal instruments on the subject that were subsequently adopted, are still fully relevant today. We reaffirm our deep commitment to the universality of human rights and to their protection and promotion. The year 1988 will provide an opportunity for all members of 12 the international community to step up their actions to ensure better implementation of the universal principles of the Declaration through the instruments and machinery of the United Nations. The year 1998 will also be an opportunity to review the implementation of the Declaration and Programme of Action adopted at the World Conference on Human Rights held in Vienna in 1993. We welcome the appointment of Mrs Mary Robinson as United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. She will have our full support. We wish to underline the importance of her mission, not least in the context of the fiftieth anniversary. Regarding the environment and development, the General Assembly will be asked to endorse at this session the results of the special session on the follow-up to Agenda 21 and of the Rio Conference. The European Union considers it essential that the implementation of Agenda 21 receive fresh political impetus. We believe it is imperative that we come to a substantial conclusion of the negotiations on climate change to be held in Kyoto in December. We urge all States to work towards that end. We have proposed clear objectives for the reduction of greenhouse-gas emissions, and we hope that other States will very soon be making their own detailed proposals in order to speed up the progress that is vitally needed if the Kyoto session of the Conference is to be a success. Two years ago the Heads of State and Government meeting in this Hall on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations observed that, in a rapidly changing world, the objectives set out in the Charter had lost none of their relevance. In many regions of the planet, we still have to face up to serious threats to international peace and security. More than ever, we need to promote economic and social development. It is vital that the ideals upon which our Organization is founded — human rights, good governance and democracy — come to be reflected more and more in the behaviour of public authorities and in people’s everyday lives. The primacy of the rule of law must be reaffirmed. We realize that if our Organization is to respond adequately to the profound changes in its external environment it must adapt its structures to the new realities of the modern world. Last July we heard the Secretary-General’s ambitious proposals, and we welcomed them. It is not, of course, a question of rewriting the mandates of the United Nations, to which we remain deeply committed, but of transforming the Organization into a productive and efficient instrument at the service of all the peoples of the world. In examining these proposals, at its fifty-second session, the General Assembly is embarking on a period of debate and decision-making that promises to be one of the most significant in the history of the United Nations. We need an Organization that fulfils its mandate to preserve peace and international security more rapidly and effectively by building better capacities for action in the fields of preventive diplomacy, peacekeeping and peacemaking, and by having more effective capacities for action in the areas of recovery and reconstruction after a conflict. We need an Organization that responds better to one of its fundamental objectives, which consists of promoting economic and social progress, eradicating poverty and ensuring the widest possible participation in an expanding world economy. We need United Nations funds and programmes that can translate the objectives of the Organization in the field of sustainable development. They must offer the countries and the peoples of the world both material support and a frame of reference that will enable them to generate their own development in the most efficient manner and in a way suited to their specific needs. We need a United Nations system that provides a credible response to the complex problems of humanitarian assistance and emergency situations, problems which include conflict prevention, peacekeeping, rehabilitation and transition towards development. Finally, we need an Organization that integrates in all its activities the fundamental concept of respect for human rights, which is an integral part of the quest for peace and security, economic prosperity and social justice. To attain those objectives, our Organization must be able to rely not only on the commitment of the Secretary- General and the cooperation of Member States, but on the support of every sector of international society, and in particular on the non-governmental organizations, whose efforts inspire and complement our own. 13 The programme of reforms put forward by the Secretary-General has two parts. The first concerns the responsibility of the Secretary-General himself. It supplements the series of proposals he put forward in March this year. It is designed to rationalize the operations of Secretariat services and United Nations agencies and to improve their coordination. The proposals are intended to mould those services into a more coherent structure. There is a need to establish a community of ideas, a coherence of effort and greater flexibility in implementing action. We urge the Secretary-General to implement those proposals as quickly as possible. The European Union considers that modalities could be worked out to see that the savings realized are reinvested in the field of development. The second part of the programme deals with improving the operation of the United Nations system and strengthening its intergovernmental machinery. It requires the approval of Member States. Here, too, the European Union believes that the method used and the choices made by the Secretary-General should open the way to effective and far-reaching reform of the United Nations. This applies particularly to the promotion of economic and social development, which must remain one of the priority objectives of our Organization. In this sector, the reform should improve the Organization’s capacity for action at the intergovernmental as well as the structural and managerial levels. In the view of the European Union, the reform of the United Nations, as an instrument in the service of development, cannot be conceived as a cost-cutting exercise; on the contrary, it must be designed to strengthen and revitalize the Organization so that it can respond to the challenges of the future in the most effective way possible. Only a reformed and revitalized United Nations can create the foundation for a global partnership between developing countries, developed countries and multilateral organizations, with the prime objective of achieving sustained and sustainable development. The European Union believes that, taken as a whole, the programme of reforms proposed by the Secretary- General represents a balanced package. It attempts to take into account the various interests in play and, once implemented, will enable the Organization to fulfil its mandate more adequately and to carry out its tasks in the service of the international community more effectively. We therefore consider that, if we want to achieve the renewal of the United Nations, it is of overriding importance that the Secretary-General’s proposals be examined by the General Assembly in an integrated manner and as a package. It is also important to abide, so far as possible, by the timetable that the Secretary- General has suggested, so that the reform measures can start to be implemented at the beginning of 1998. The reform programme before us affords us a unique opportunity to reform the Organization from top to bottom. It is for us, the Member States, to demonstrate the necessary ambition, courage and clarity of vision to show that we are equal to this challenge. The European Union is well aware that the proposals before us necessarily represent a compromise between the sometimes divergent interests of Member States, and that they cannot, therefore, fully reflect either its own views or those of other schools of thought within the General Assembly. Because we believe that the programme of reforms, taken as a whole, represents significant progress for our Organization, the Union does not intend to press for the fine points of its own positions to be taken into account with regard to each of the proposals or recommendations before us. It is our hope that other delegations will approach this exercise in a similar spirit and that they can agree to put the general positive thrust of the package of proposals before the satisfaction of their individual demands. Over the coming weeks the European Union intends to play an active part in the Assembly’s work. Our task is to reach general agreement on a feasible, constructive and coherent response to the Secretary-General’s proposals, one that respects his responsibilities and his authority. Necessary as it is, the reform exercise on which we have embarked will not bear fruit until the United Nations has the financial resources it needs to fulfil its mandates. For several years now, the United Nations has been embroiled in a financial crisis, which began as a cash- flow problem, but which has now become structural. That crisis is undermining the necessary sense of partnership between Member States and compromising implementation of the Organization’s programmes in many areas. The European Union has often stated that the crisis cannot be resolved until all Member States have agreed to meet their obligations under the United Nations Charter in full by settling their arrears and by paying on time and without conditions the full amount of their 14 mandatory contributions to the Organization’s regular budget and to the budget of peacekeeping operations. The States members of the European Union, whose contributions represent 35 per cent of the regular budget and 38 per cent of the peacekeeping budget, have always honoured their financial obligations promptly, fully and unconditionally. The European Union has put forward a package of coherent proposals designed to put the Organization on a sound and predictable financial footing. They relate to measures to speed up the payment of arrears, to tighten up the system for paying contributions, to monitor United Nations spending more closely and to reform the scale of assessment so as to better reflect the principle of ability to pay. It is important that together, at this fifty-second session of the General Assembly, we find a constructive and viable solution to these questions, which are fundamental if we wish to ensure that our Organization has the capacity to fulfil its mandate at the dawn of the twenty- first century.  ﻿On behalf of the States members of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), of which I am the current Chairman, and of my country, Zimbabwe, I extend our warmest congratulations to you, Mr. Udovenko, on your unanimous election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session. Your election to that high office is a fitting and eloquent tribute to your personal diplomatic qualities and to the valuable role that your country, Ukraine, is playing in international affairs. We are confident that, under your wise stewardship, the deliberations of this session will achieve significant results. We commend Ambassador Razali, the President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session, for having brought his experience and wisdom to bear upon the various special sessions and working groups of the General Assembly that he presided over during the past year, particularly in the area of United Nations reform. May I also pay tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his vision and for his exemplary leadership of the United Nations. I wish to commend him particularly for his tireless efforts to assist Member States in transforming the United Nations into a more dynamic, relevant and effective instrument for meeting the challenges that confront us as we approach the end of this millennium. Africa has consistently underlined the need for reform of the United Nations and other multilateral bodies, to promote the democratization and effectiveness of the international decision-making process. Indeed, we have maintained that such international bodies should truly serve the collective interests of the peoples of the world. It is in this context that we welcome the Secretary- General’s bold package of proposals, contained in the report entitled “Renewing the United Nations: a Programme for Reform” (A/51/950), which has been presented to the Assembly. These proposals merit our serious consideration. We have taken note of those proposals that the Secretary-General has implemented or intends to implement, as they fall within the purview of his powers as chief administrator of the Organization. We have also taken note of the proposals that he is placing before Member States for their consideration. We stand ready to work closely with the Secretary- General and other delegations to ensure that the reform process is speeded up on the basis of consensus and democratic participation. What is crucial to us is that reforms go to the heart of the matter — namely, the removal of anachronistic and undemocratic arrangements introduced over 50 years ago. The reform and expansion of the United Nations Security Council is not only desirable but also imperative if the Council is to ensure the successful implementation of its global mandate to maintain international peace and security on behalf of all States. The fact that major geographical and political groupings representing the overwhelming majority of the peoples of the world remain under-represented and without permanent seats on the Security Council is the greatest anomaly of our times. Equally anomalous is a situation in which in this enlightened age the wishes of the overwhelming majority in the General Assembly will continue to be subjected to the whims and dictates of the privileged few by virtue of their wielding the power of the veto. Why should a small minority of States continue to wield so much power over the destiny of the majority without the latter’s consent? Why, indeed, are there frequent and persistent attempts by few States to undermine and circumvent the most democratic and representative body of the United Nations — the General Assembly — on matters of crucial concern to the entire international community? What are we to make of this? Are we meant to conclude that democracy and good governance at the international level should only be at the pleasure and behest of the mighty and powerful? Surely this state of affairs cannot continue, as it makes a mockery of the lofty and hallowed democratic principles we profess to cherish dearly at the national level. The thirty-third ordinary summit of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), held in Harare in June this year, underscored the pressing need for democratizing the United Nations Security Council and stressed that the process should take full account of the position of Africa as the largest continental grouping at the United Nations as far as the allocation of permanent and non-permanent seats in the reformed Council is concerned. The summit concurred with the position of the Non-Aligned Movement that use of the power of the veto should be restricted if it is not abolished. However, for as long as it exists, the new permanent members of the Council should be granted the same prerogatives and powers as the current members. Another area of fundamental importance to Africa pertains to the reforms in the economic and social fields of the United Nations. Africa is of the view that for reforms in this sphere to be meaningful and credible they should seek to reinforce the pivotal role of the United Nations in development and, conversely, the centrality of development to the United Nations agenda. We firmly believe in the role of free enterprise as the motive force in economic development. But any attempts to re-fashion an exclusively political mandate for the United Nations will marginalize its role in development, while giving free play to blind market forces and finance capital. This is clearly contrary to the Charter of the United Nations and should be resisted. The United Nations needs adequate financial resources if it is to continue to fulfil its mandate effectively, particularly in the light of the ever-expanding burden of responsibilities that it has to shoulder. It is therefore imperative for Member States to ensure that they pay their dues and pay them in a timely fashion. Unilateral actions to adjust the Organization’s scale of assessment or to withhold funds from certain United Nations programmes undermine the very foundation of the Organization and therefore should not be condoned. In the area of disarmament, we welcome the adoption at the recently concluded Oslo Conference of the draft treaty on the global ban on anti-personnel mines. The overwhelming support that the treaty received is eloquent testimony to the determination of the international community to rid itself of these deadly weapons, which have killed or maimed millions of innocent people the world over. Africa, which has one of the largest concentrations of anti-personnel mines and perhaps the highest number of victims of these weapons, is happy to join this international consensus. It is our hope that those who remain outside the Ottawa process will reconsider their position and decide to sign the treaty when it is opened for signature in December of this year. The past few years have witnessed the African continent undergoing a dual process of economic and political reforms. These reforms have in many countries resulted in greater democratization, as well as in higher economic growth rates. In the political sphere, democracy and good governance have taken root on our continent. In the past few years, we have witnessed the end of the dictatorships and military governments in many parts of Africa, and their replacement by governments committed to the political empowerment of their people. In the economic sphere, economic structural adjustment 2 programmes not only have stimulated high growth rates of between 5 and 10 per cent per annum, but have also created an environment that is increasingly receptive to foreign direct investment and greater participation of the private sector in our economies. Most countries have also entered into multilateral and bilateral investment treaties with both developed and developing countries. At the subregional and continental levels, Africa has taken unprecedented steps to assume greater control of its future through economic integration. The historic convening in Harare in June this year of the inaugural session of the Assembly of Heads of Government of the African Economic Community was an important landmark in Africa’s efforts to build a stable and prosperous future for its people. The session resolved to strengthen the African Economic Community through the conclusion of protocols with subregional organizations, such as the Southern African Development Community (SADC), the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA), among others, which are essential building blocks for a viable economic community at a continental level. For these efforts to succeed, however, it is vital that Africa receive the prerequisite support and cooperation of its development partners and, indeed, that of the international community at large. We should never underestimate the enormous obstacles that the African economies are confronted with. Africa’s external debt problem and the heavy burden of debt repayments continue to drain many of our economies of the much-needed capital for development. More resources in the form of debt repayments than those coming in the form of aid are leaving the continent. There is a need, therefore, for international financial institutions to adopt a unified and coordinated approach to Africa’s debt problem that will help to redress the situation. There can be no better time than now for the international community to augment our own efforts to bring the much-awaited peace dividend to our people. Foreign direct investment to Africa should continue to be augmented by official development assistance. The steady fall of this assistance from 0.34 per cent in 1992 to 0.25 per cent in 1996 is therefore a matter of serious concern to us. We commend those countries which have surpassed the target of allocating 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product to official development assistance and urge others to do likewise. We welcome new initiatives on Africa that have recently been announced in the area of trade, investment and infrastructure development. These are, indeed, a result of the recognition that Africa risks being marginalized unless innovative ways are found to support its development efforts. Africa in terms of conflict situations still suffers from a number of setbacks. The situation in Sierra Leone, where a military junta overthrew the democratically elected Government of that country in May this year, is a matter of serious concern to us. The Organization of African Unity (OAU), meeting in Harare for its thirty- third summit, unequivocally condemned the coup and called for the immediate and unconditional restoration of the constitutional Government of Sierra Leone. Africa’s message is loud and clear. The days of military dictatorships are over. Africa cannot and will not give legitimacy to regimes that willy-nilly flout the rule of law and the popular aspirations of their people. We appeal to the international community not to give solace to these military juntas in the name of humanitarian aid, but to stand solidly with Africa in denying them recognition. Of equal concern to Africa are the crises in the Republic of Congo (Brazzaville), Somalia, the Sudan, Western Sahara, Burundi and the Comoros. In this respect we take note of, and reaffirm our support for, the United Nations initiative through the Secretary-General’s envoy, Mr. James Baker, which seeks to find a lasting solution to the problem of the Saharan Arab Democratic Republic. The OAU is working tirelessly through the Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution in search of African solutions to these African problems. We call on the United Nations and the international community at large to support Africa’s initiatives to resolve these conflicts and to strengthen the OAU’s capacity for preventive diplomacy and conflict resolution. We are encouraged by the continued engagement of the United Nations in Angola and welcome the adoption by the Security Council last month of resolution 1127 (1997), calling on the União Nacional para a Independência Total de Angola (UNITA) to abide by the Lusaka Protocol. Africa and the entire international community welcomed the successful holding of elections in Liberia, and we congratulate the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) on the important role it played in helping to bring that conflict to an end. We salute the people of the Democratic Republic of Congo on the positive developments that have taken place 3 in their country and welcome the commitment of their Government to restore and uphold democracy and democratic principles. Obviously, after so many decades of dictatorship and plunder, the task of rehabilitation and reconstruction in that country is not going to be an easy one. The people of the Democratic Republic of Congo need our support in their endeavours to restore peace and stability in their country. Indeed, basic necessities such as food and shelter, together with peace, security and stability, are the foremost human rights that the people of the Democratic Republic of Congo ask of the international community in this, their hour of greatest need. While inquiry into alleged massacres in the Congo may be important, the lofty principles of peace, democracy and good governance which we all cherish so dearly, will be realized in that country only if immediate support is provided by the international community. In respect of the dispute between the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and both the United States and Britain concerning the Lockerbie issue, the OAU summit expressed the hope that the Security Council would consider ways and means to ensure a rapid resolution of this dispute. The peace process in the Middle East is in serious jeopardy as a result of Israel’s refusal to freeze the building of settlements in the occupied territories. There is a real risk of reversal of important gains that have been achieved so far in that part of the world. We call on the parties to the peace process to show good faith and give peace a chance. In conclusion, I wish to reiterate that we believe the United Nations reform process has reached a crucial stage. We have always believed that the United Nations, as a living organism, needs to respond to its changing environment. It is our sincere hope, therefore, that we can make progress expeditiously. We in Africa aspire, in these reforms, for a United Nations which upholds universal values and interests, attends to the urgent needs of the least- developed regions of the world, and remains at the service of humanity.  ﻿Allow me to express my felicitations to the President on his election and express the confidence that, with his wisdom and diplomatic skill, he will ably guide the fifty-second General Assembly towards tangible results. Let me also express my appreciation to his predecessor for his excellent work. Due to lateness of the hour, I will present a brief version of my statement. The complete text will be distributed. At the threshold of the third millennium and under the circumstances of unfolding interplay among not one or two but various powers in the shaping of new global decisions, international relations need a new doctrine, commensurate with the evolving conditions and emerging needs. The main objective of this doctrine is the gradual realization of a global civil society, a society where liberty and salvation harmoniously coincide to meet the spiritual and material needs of humanity in an institutionalized manner, and where comprehensive, balanced and sustainable development lies at the foundation of universal cooperation and participation. The doctrine of global civil society is predicated on two major principles, the first being the institutionalization of the rule of law in domestic and international relations. The international community today, like its constituent Member States, simply cannot provide a peaceful and prosperous life for people through coercion, autocratic decisions and a cultural domination and hegemony. Therefore, the rule of law, as the very foundation of order and the relations among individuals and States, should be institutionalized. The second major principle is that of empowerment and participation. Similar to the process of participation at the national level — where all individuals, regardless of colour, race, opinion, wealth or social status have an inalienable right to determine their own destiny — countries and regions with differing cultures and resources should enjoy the right and be empowered to participate at all stages of decision-making and policy implementation at the global scale. Today, North and South constitute two complementary domains in a single global arena. Equilibrium and stability of the future world order depend, in large measure, on the South’s contribution to the shaping of the norms governing future international relations. In our view, we can move towards the gradual realization of a global civil society through institutionalization of these two fundamental principles and by committing ourselves to pluralism, tolerance, dialogue among civilizations, promotion of human rights, comprehensive, balanced and sustainable development, justice and equality of opportunities as the governing norms in our interactions. The political philosophy of the Islamic Republic of Iran is in full accord with these fundamental foundations of the prospective global civil society. The domestic programme of the new administration is geared towards strengthening the foundations of civil society. The main features and priorities of the new administration’s foreign policy include the following: the expansion of relations with all countries on the basis of mutual respect, common interest and non-interference in the internal affairs of others; emphasis on the 23 institutionalization of international law as the foundation of global order and as the final arbiter among States; the establishment and strengthening of mechanisms of mutual confidence-building and security through regional cooperation and the negation of the presence and influence of foreign powers; the protection of all human rights and the rejection of attempts at selective and discriminatory abuse of human rights as instruments of policy; emphasis on the fundamental rights of oppressed individuals and nations, particularly the Palestinian people; the arresting of the arms race at the regional and global levels, the elimination of weapons of mass destruction and the control of conventional weapons; the strengthening of the bonds of amity and solidarity among Islamic and non-aligned countries; an active presence and constructive participation in the United Nations and other international organizations, with an effective contribution in international efforts on global issues such as arms control and disarmament, comprehensive and sustainable development, human rights, peacekeeping and combating terrorism and illicit drugs, as well as the reversal of unjust international arrangements; and, finally, defending the rights of Iranian citizens all over the world. The Islamic Republic of Iran has adopted concrete measures at the regional and international levels in pursuit of these principled policies, and it is fully prepared to cooperate with all countries towards achieving common objectives in accordance with the principles of the United Nations Charter. The question of Palestine, which lies at the very heart of the Middle East crisis, represents the most vivid and persistent case of disregard for international law and the systematic violation of fundamental human rights of individuals and peoples. The Middle East crisis can be solved only through the full realization of the rights of the Palestinian people, in particular their right to self- determination, the return of refugees and the liberation of all occupied territories, including Al-Quds al-Sharif, southern Lebanon and the Syrian Golan. The experience of the past few years has made it abundantly clear that any scheme or proposal which fails to take into full account the realities in the region or the infamous Israeli patterns of behaviour is bound to fail. It is indeed unfortunate that some outside powers deliberately misconstrue or misrepresent Iran’s frank, open and objective exposé of the realities as support for terrorism and as opposition to peace and security in the region. I reiterate once again that the Islamic Republic of Iran also seeks peace and stability in the Middle East — a just and lasting peace that would receive regional consensus and that would cure this chronic crisis once and for all. Our region has witnessed for nearly two decades the crisis in Afghanistan. There is, undoubtedly, no military solution to this tragedy; yet some warring factions have yet to realize this evident truth. Only through the establishment of a ceasefire, the cessation of foreign intervention, negotiations between all Afghan groups and the formation of a broad-based Government representing all Afghans can the crisis in Afghanistan find a lasting solution. My Government is determined to continue its humanitarian and peacemaking endeavours in Afghanistan in tandem with the United Nations Secretary-General and the Secretary-General of the Organization of the Islamic Conference. I must draw the attention of the international community to the dire need for and the urgency of humanitarian assistance to the people of Afghanistan. The cold war generated a tendency in internal and external relations which required the existence of a real or imagined enemy. Escaping this state of mind and building a new world based on cooperation and the rule of law requires not only political will, but careful planning in order to foster confidence and to mitigate economic, security and social concerns at national and regional levels. Confidence-building at national, regional and international levels, as an essential strategy to transform human relations, will not succeed in the absence of transparency in decision-making and the participation of all concerned. The antithesis of universal participation in decision-making and law-based cooperation at the international level is unilateralism. This phenomenon finds its manifestations in various areas, including arms control, development, international trade, the environment and codification of new human rights norms. The first and most effective step towards building confidence is the elimination of weapons of mass destruction, the reduction of conventional weapons, transparency in the field of armaments and the establishment of security and cooperation schemes in various regions of the globe. This endeavour requires the full and non-discriminatory implementation of existing undertakings in the area of disarmament and security and the development of new rules to address universally accepted priorities, as well as security requirements of the international community and its members. 24 The Islamic Republic of Iran, on the basis of Islamic principles, considers weapons of mass destruction inhumane and illegitimate. Officials of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) have repeatedly confirmed the fact that Iran’s nuclear activities are performed within the framework of the Agency’s regulations and that they follow peaceful objectives. Despite these clear facts, some Governments have embarked upon a barrage of false and baseless accusations against Iran during the past few years. Yet propaganda campaigns of public deception will certainly not change regional realities on the ground. It is self-evident that the lack of security in the Middle East is rooted in Israel’s militarism and its arsenal of weapons of mass destruction, which have thwarted all disarmament initiatives and mechanisms in the region. Furthermore, the unabated race for the acquisition of conventional weapons exacerbates the atmosphere of anxiety and mistrust. The foreign policy of the Islamic Republic of Iran is founded on peace, self-restraint, confidence-building and the reduction and elimination of tension, particularly within our region. I wish to inform the Assembly frankly and sincerely that of all the countries of the Middle East, Iran allocates the lowest percentage of its budget to its military. In 1995 and 1996, only 3.3 per cent of our gross domestic product was spent on defence. We continue to be ready for any regionally acceptable understanding on further reductions in defence budgets such that the security concerns of large and small countries alike are fully addressed. The highest foreign policy priority of the Islamic Republic of Iran is to make every effort to strengthen trust and confidence and to build peace in our immediate neighbourhood, which in cases such as Tajikistan has achieved encouraging results. In our region, the Economic Cooperation Organization has also contributed to the expansion and consolidation of relations among its member States through the adoption of common positions and by playing an active role in the field of economic and technical cooperation. In the Persian Gulf area, only cooperation and collective participation can bring about security and stability for all countries in the region. Taking full advantage of historical affinities, cultural ties and religious bonds and sparing no effort to utilize in an efficient and coordinated manner the human and natural potential and resources of the region constitute the single best long-term guarantee of security and tranquillity. Iran — as the biggest country in the region, enjoying a historical depth of several millennia combined with the richness of Islamic civilization — does not need to engage in any arms build-up or competition. Our message to our neighbours is one of friendship and fraternity, and we shall warmly welcome any initiative to strengthen the foundations of confidence and cooperation in the region. The Islamic Republic of Iran, which in December will be hosting the eighth Islamic summit, is of the view that on the threshold of the twenty-first century, the primary task of the summit will be to foster mutual confidence and establish mechanisms for cooperation and coordination in various fields among Islamic countries. This will undoubtedly contribute to the further strengthening of the foundations of lasting international security and stability. Terrorism is the wicked result of widespread lawlessness and the violent obstruction of public participation, which in its various forms and manifestations threatens human societies at the national, regional and international levels. The political exploitation of this international problem, through hurling unfounded allegations in order to advance certain ulterior motives or cover up deficiencies in domestic or external policy, is no less dangerous than terrorism itself. These two elements together diminish trust, stability and security at the regional and the international levels. Resolution of this destructive problem requires a determined avoidance of sensationalism and demagoguery on the one hand, and a concerted international attempt to find practical measures to combat terrorism that are reasonable, objective and realistic on the other. More important, our collective success requires the non- selective, universal and law-based application of agreed measures by relevant international organizations. As a country that has suffered immensely from the inhuman phenomenon of terrorism in the post-revolution years, the Islamic Republic of Iran is prepared to take an active part in any international effort to combat this problem in a serious, comprehensive and principled manner. The resolution of complex international problems and the realization of post-cold-war opportunities require the participation of all members of the international community in the decision-making process, on the basis of the rules and principles of international law. The United Nations is the institutional embodiment of both universal participation and the rule of law on the global scale. It is the only universal organization which, with the 25 help of an efficient and capable system, can move towards finding solutions to the problems of human society and responding to post-cold-war challenges. The magnitude of this task clearly points to the need to improve the efficiency of the Organization and to enhance its role by embarking on the transformation and reform of the major bodies, programmes and modes of operation of the Organization. I should like to express appreciation for the Secretary- General’s efforts to reinvigorate the Organization, and to assure him of our earnest desire to cooperate with him in the process of restructuring the United Nations into a more efficient, capable and reliable institution responsive to the needs and views of all its Members. In our opinion, the extensive scope and implications of the measures envisaged in the Secretary-General’s report of 16 July make it imperative for the General Assembly to establish working groups to examine the report thoroughly and in detail so that the views of all Member States are identified and taken into account. There is no doubt that the current composition of the Security Council is remote from the state of international affairs today and is not acceptable to the overwhelming majority of the international community. In our opinion, any increase in the membership of the Security Council or reform of its working methods will have to take the true role and concerns of the developing countries into account. Moreover, reform of the working methods of the Security Council should not be contingent upon resolution of the question of the increase in the membership of the Council; they are two distinct subjects and thus require two separate decisions. The General Assembly is undoubtedly the highest and most representative organ of the United Nations, where all Members of the Organization enjoy an equal right to participate. This body, which comprises the entire membership, certainly has the right — and indeed the responsibility — to address each and every issue of global concern, including in particular those relating to international peace and security. Expansion and broadening of the participatory base of the future global order on the basis of norms acceptable to all cultures and peoples is most conducive to building a better tomorrow, and to ensuring freedom, security, stability and sustainable development at the national, regional and international levels. The General Assembly, providing all Member States with the opportunity for full and equal participation in decision- making, is the most appropriate venue for dialogue, understanding and the adoption of coordinated international measures to build a better and a more equitable tomorrow. As the new Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran assumes its responsibilities, I reiterate the willingness and full preparedness of my Government to take a constructive part in this collective endeavour through promoting dialogue, understanding, trust and solidarity.﻿Allow me to congratulate the President on his election and express my confidence in his leadership during a crucially important session of the General Assembly. I wish to assure him that Latvia’s past experience of fruitful bilateral cooperation with Ukraine will guide the delegation of Latvia in pursuit of our common tasks at this session of the Assembly. 20 I wish to recognize with gratitude Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia for his determined leadership during the fifty-first session of the Assembly, as well as of its General Committee, of which Latvia was a member. At the outset I will address the need for United Nations reform, follow that with a response to the reform proposals of the Secretary-General, and, finally, inform the Assembly about Latvia’s recent experiences with reforms. Recent history suggests why reforming our Organization is essential. In 1945 many delegates to the founding conference of our Organization travelled to San Francisco by train and by sea. Delegates to the fifty-second session of the General Assembly have travelled to New York by air. They communicate with their capitals by very fast electronic means that did not exist 50 years ago. These advances in the technology of travel and information have facilitated an enormous and continuing expansion of international activities by ever greater numbers of State and non-State actors. Most important for the United Nations is the expansion of international activities by state actors other than members of foreign services. The participants in these transgovernmental activities come from many governmental institutions: the courts, police, central banks and regulatory agencies. State as well as non-State actors form successful transnational organizations that are independent of the United Nations system. These organizations can be competitors and cooperating partners for the United Nations. A United Nations that does not continually evolve to offer a coherent response to changing global conditions is a United Nations that risks becoming irrelevant. The world needs a United Nations that can contribute effectively to the solution of complex global problems, such as those caused by the three-fold increase since 1945 of both the global population and the number of independent States. It needs a United Nations that will be a leader in the shaping of a new and workable international political order to fill the place vacated by the bipolar order of the cold-war era. This will be done best by a United Nations with universal membership. Latvia believes that the package of reform proposals which the Secretary-General has presented to this Assembly contains measures which will enable the United Nations to respond to the imperative of organizational evolution. Latvia views this package as a work in progress, rather than as completed reform proposals for the long term. But even if the proposals are imperfect or not complete, they are the best this Assembly has before it. Latvia will support the reform package as a good springboard for reform and hopes that other Member States will do the same. During the next few months, the General Assembly and the Secretary-General will need to work together to begin the process of implementing the reform package. The Secretary-General will have to report regularly to Member States on the progress of the reforms. He will have to develop implementation plans for recommendations approved, on the basis of informed considerations, by the General Assembly and other United Nations organs. This Assembly will have to elaborate further the procedure for addressing the proposals of the Secretary-General. It may wish to decide on additional reforms. Latvia expects that lessons will be learned during the implementation of the reform proposals and that the lessons will suggest mid-course corrections, improvements and even termination of some elements in the package. Let me now turn to several substantive aspects of reform that may touch upon the Secretary-General’s reform package, but are not a part of it. The success of reform depends upon a sound financial footing for the Organization. In this regard, three recent interconnected processes may be noted. These processes are, first, rapid changes since 1991 in peacekeeping budgets and a basically unchanging regular budget; secondly, reform of the assessment methodology under way since 1994; and, thirdly and most important, recent unprecedented increases in overdue outstanding contributions. The interdependence of these three processes means that the General Assembly will have to work out ways to treat the three processes as parts of a whole. It is also necessary that the Assembly make decisions that assure a genuine movement towards achieving a sound financial situation within a few years at most. In regard to the very difficult question of Security Council reform, Latvia wishes to reiterate its continued support for an expansion of the Council that would result in more equitable geographical and small-state representation. Latvia believes that the mixed outcomes of the complex post-cold-war peacekeeping operations initiated 21 by the Security Council may have relevance to the reform of the Council. Learning how to improve the success rate of these operations could have the side benefit of pointing towards Security Council reforms that might improve the maintenance of international peace and security. Latvia has a special interest in the future of United Nations peacekeeping operations, since the Baltic Battalion (BALTBAT), in which Latvians serve side by side with Estonians and Lithuanians, has completed a successful year of learning to cooperate and interface. This has been done while participating in a multinational operation: the Stabilization Force (SFOR) peacekeeping mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina. BALTBAT, which has been trained and equipped with the help and encouragement of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the Nordic partners of the Baltic States, corresponds to their standards and has become fully operational. In view of the growth of crimes that escape national punishment or that cross national borders, Latvia fully supports the establishment of an independent, efficient and authoritative international criminal court with independent prosecution. We consider this to be the most important development in international law since the creation of the International Court of Justice. Latvia intends to participate actively in the completion of the establishment of the court in 1998. In regard to reforms in Latvia, it may be noted at the outset that they are driven by the need to overcome the consequences of 50 years of occupation, which caused the political, economic and social development of Latvia to fall behind its Nordic neighbours. In its sixth year of restored independence, Latvia continues with reforms designed to catch up with its Nordic neighbours. Latvia wishes to build a solidly democratic foundation for long-term economic and social well-being. In this endeavour, Latvia receives international assistance from many sources. One source is the United Nations system, cooperation with which — primarily with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) — has contributed significantly to the improvement of social and economic well-being in Latvia. The United Nations presence in Latvia began in 1992 with an integrated office under the leadership of a resident coordinator who is also the UNDP representative. The integrated office, essentially a United Nations House, has allowed cost-effective access to the technical assistance offered by any part of the United Nations system. In addition, UNDP mobilizes bilateral and multilateral donors for projects in which it participates. I wish to express my deepest gratitude to UNDP and the donors who have made contributions to Latvia’s reform projects. I will now focus on reforms in only three of the areas that have an impact on social well-being and in which UNDP and the donors it has mobilized have been involved. The first area is human rights. Although at its last session the Assembly concluded its consideration of the question of human rights in Latvia and Estonia, I believe that a brief report on some human rights developments during this year may nevertheless be of interest at this session. Latvia cooperates with the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Centre for Human Rights. Recently Latvia made a financial contribution — its first voluntary contribution ever to any United Nations body — in support of work by the Commissioner’s staff on national human rights institutions. The Latvian National Human Rights Office, established in 1995 as an independent national institution, has begun to have a tangible impact, particularly on the rights of vulnerable social groups. The somewhat unprecedented powers and functions of the Office have generated considerable interest in other central and eastern European countries. The Office has received UNDP technical and financial assistance at all stages of its conception, planning and development. On 4 June 1997 Latvia ratified the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, thus providing new legal guarantees to its residents, including the right of individual complaint and compulsory jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights. Human rights were further strengthened through adoption of the Law on Refugees and Asylum Seekers and ratification of the 1951 United Nations Convention relating to the Status of Refugees. Another area affecting social well-being and integration is language training offered to the relatively large segment of the population that lacks a knowledge of Latvian, the State language. The Government of Latvia approved the National Programme for Latvian Language Training in 1995. Since then the Programme has completed the training of a core body of teachers. Textbooks and teacher handbooks have been published. 22 The third area relevant to social well-being is support for the re-emergence of civil society. Since the time of national reawakening 10 years ago, almost 3,000 non- governmental organizations have been established in Latvia. The first major national non-governmental-organization forum will take place in Riga this weekend. I note that its organizers have received valuable assistance from the UNDP office in Latvia. With regard to economic well-being, the Government has worked hard to achieve macroeconomic stability during the transition process from a centrally planned to an efficient market economy. As a result, economic growth has resumed and inflation has decreased dramatically. Real gross-domestic-product growth for 1997 is estimated at 4 per cent. By June of this year inflation had declined to about 7.5 per cent on an annual basis. These achievements are accompanied by continuing economic hardship for large segments of the population. Social welfare and poverty- alleviation projects are aimed at decreasing these hardships. Latvia intends to apply the lessons learned from its reform experiences to its work as a member of the Economic and Social Council. One general lesson learned in Latvia is that the results of reforms include not only benefits but also costs. The cost hardest to bear is probably insecurity about the ultimate outcome of reforms. We, the reformers of the United Nations, will surely have to bear the cost of insecurity as well. Perhaps a bit of ancient wisdom can diminish the insecurity. The Roman philosopher and Emperor Marcus Aurelius, in his Meditations, asked three questions about reforms: “Is any man afraid of change? Why, what can take place without change? What then is more pleasing or suitable” than change? ﻿First of all, on behalf of the Government and people of Nepal and on my own behalf, I should like to extend to you, Sir, our warmest congratulations on your election as President of the fifty- second session of the General Assembly. I am confident that with your rich experience in international affairs you will guide the work of the Assembly to a successful conclusion. I wish also to assure you of the full cooperation of my delegation in the discharge of your responsibilities. I would like to take this opportunity to offer our deep appreciation and thanks to the President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session, Ambassador Razali Ismail of the friendly country of Malaysia, for the enthusiasm, dedication and zeal he brought to bear on the work of the previous session. To Secretary-General Kofi Annan, I bring greetings and best wishes from Nepal. In every way, he is proving himself worthy of the great trust the membership has placed in him. Having shown his deep commitment to United Nations reform from the day of his appointment as Secretary-General, he has presented us with a set of very serious and far-reaching proposals of impressive breadth and scope, with a view to reshaping the United Nations so that it can better serve humanity in the years ahead. The Secretary-General has asked us to make this session of the General Assembly one of reform. We agree with him that United Nations reform is the shared concern of all Member States and that the purpose of the reform is to strengthen the role of the United Nations and enhance its efficiency. In the aftermath of the end of the cold war, the world situation is continuously undergoing profound changes, evolving progressively towards a world 25 of multipolarity which reinforces the core of the United Nations Charter: peace and development in larger freedom. The universal cause, therefore, is to make the United Nations a more vibrant world Organization that is more properly equipped, institutionally and financially, to meet the evolving challenges of the next century. The proposals of the Secretary-General complement the ongoing intergovernmental process regarding the revitalization of the United Nations, particularly financial reform and reform of the Security Council. The United Nations, if it is to perform the mission set out in its Charter, cannot limp from one year to another on the verge of bankruptcy. No country should bear an excessive burden, but the fundamental principle of any scale of assessments should be the capacity to pay, calculated on the basis of the country’s share of global gross national product. It also does not make sense that half the total membership is assessed the same amount in contributions. A change in the scale of assessments is overdue. Countries, rich and poor, must pay their assessed share in full, on time and without conditions. With regard to the reform of the Security Council, the organ which bears the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security, Nepal’s position coincides basically with the position taken by the Non-Aligned Movement, as reflected, in particular, in the Cartagena summit Declaration and the subsequent Declarations of the meetings of Foreign Ministers of the Non-Aligned Movement. The Security Council should better reflect changes in contemporary political and economic realities. It should be more representative in composition and more transparent in its functioning. It must be more democratic in character. It must be more reflective of balance between the North and South. It must, above all, be capable of prompt action when peace is threatened. The contribution of Member States to international peace and security should be the guiding criterion for the selection of Members of the expanded Security Council in both permanent and non-permanent categories. Since the Security Council is the principal instrument of the international community in the area of collective security, I must emphasize here that any reform must be the fruit of ratifiable global consensus and must in no way diminish the Council’s capacity for prompt and effective action to maintain international peace and security. In the view of my delegation, the reform proposals of the Secretary-General, which deserve our appreciation and support, are categorized in three broad areas: management of conflicts and peacekeeping; strengthening and integration at headquarters, and field levels of United Nations development activities; and protection and promotion of human rights. Too often in the past, the United Nations has suffered from a sore need for a capacity to act in the face of conflicts. The Secretary-General must be encouraged and supported financially to make use of his high office for the resolution of emerging conflicts. When peacekeeping operations are mandated by the Security Council, the capacity of the Secretary-General to organize and mount them in time should be strengthened. Peacekeeping, to be effective, is dependent largely on the maintenance of elements within the national armed forces of Member States that can be made available promptly to the United Nations. Sixty-six countries are now participating in United Nations standby arrangements, and I am happy to say that Nepal is one of the 10 countries to sign the Memorandum of Understanding which commits my country to contribute 2,000 troops, including doctors, engineers, observers and headquarters staff and 200 civilian monitors for peacekeeping purposes, at short notice. It is high time that the rapidly deployable mission headquarters became operational. Nepal is confident that the Secretary-General’s proposals for a new United Nations Development Group and a United Nations Development Assistance Framework will provide clearer focus and direction to United Nations development activities aimed at sustainable development and the eradication of poverty. In Nepal, many of the development activities carried out by the United Nations are already practically integrated at the field level. Care has to be taken, however, that in the name of integration or merger, the demonstrated strength of individual programmes, funds or agencies is not lost. We also find the proposal for a Special Commission to look at the division of labour among the various specialized agencies across the United Nations system very interesting and deserving of careful consideration. With a view to achieving greater harmonization of international development efforts, Nepal feels the need for a closer relationship between the United Nations and international financial institutions and the World Trade Organization. Since peace, progress and humanity are the core concern of the United Nations, Nepal, as a functioning democracy with a deep commitment to human rights, appreciates the intention of the Secretary-General to strengthen and broaden the capacity of the United Nations 26 in the field of human rights. We welcome the strengthening of the Human Rights secretariat and the choice of Mrs. Mary Robinson, former President of Ireland, as High Commissioner for Human Rights. There could hardly be a better choice. I wish to congratulate the new High Commissioner and express the confidence of my delegation that she will be an independent and credible defender of human rights. We welcome her determination to narrow the gap in the perception of human rights. She has rightly observed that collective and individual rights are not mutually exclusive and that the scope of human rights is interlinked with social, cultural and economic issues requiring a broad approach. As a signatory of all basic international human rights instruments and a participant in the World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna, Nepal looks forward to the fiftieth anniversary next year of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Together with freedom of speech and belief, the Declaration characterizes freedom from fear and freedom from want as the highest aspirations of human beings. Along with concerns for peace and sustainable development, it is right that concerns for human rights should also be made an integral part of the work of the United Nations. Peace in many parts of the world continues to remain fragile. Nepal is deeply concerned over the setbacks in the peace process in the Middle East. The settlements policy has retarded the process. Nor has the spate of violence in the region helped restore the mutual confidence without which no peace process can succeed. Without a resolution to the Palestinian problem, no comprehensive, just and lasting peace will be possible in the Middle East. We urge the concerned parties not to deviate from their professed commitment to resolving the problem through peaceful means. The extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty represent a fine moment in the history of nuclear-arms control and disarmament. The Convention on Chemical Weapons has come into force, to our great satisfaction. With the creation of nuclear-weapon-free zones in South-East Asia and Africa last year, we hope that efforts to create such zones in other regions, such as the Middle East and South Asia, will be relentlessly pursued. Disarmament, particularly nuclear disarmament, means nothing if it does not provide security to nations and peoples. Only a complete elimination of nuclear weapons will provide such security. It is in this spirit that we have supported the programme of action advanced by 28 NAM and neutral countries, members of the Conference on Disarmament, for the elimination of nuclear weapons through phases over a period of time. We are disappointed by the complete lack of progress in this year’s session of the Conference on Disarmament. Nepal is in favour of strengthening the role of the Conference on Disarmament as the principal global disarmament negotiating forum. Nepal welcomes the agreement in Oslo this month on the text of a convention for the total ban on anti- personnel landmines and will seriously consider signing the convention in Ottawa in December. Landmines should not be allowed to be used indiscriminately and to maim and take innocent lives, including those of women and children. While the importance of the issues of weapons of mass destruction cannot be overemphasized, it is to be noted that it is conventional weapons that have killed the most people throughout history. Therein lies the importance of the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms. The work of the United Nations Panel of Experts on Small Arms, one of whose sessions was hosted in Kathmandu this year, has laid the foundation for future United Nations action in this area. Confidence-building measures and regular dialogues in informal settings represent an indispensable element in the long and arduous efforts undertaken on behalf of disarmament and security. I am pleased to note that the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific, located in Kathmandu, has been found to be a useful forum for such informal dialogues on disarmament and security issues. Nepal’s consistent participation in United Nations peacekeeping operations reflects our abiding faith in the ideals of the United Nations. Over the past four decades, Nepal’s peacekeepers have served with pride in all regions of the world under the United Nations for the cause of peace. Many of the Nepalese Blue Helmets have lost their lives and limbs in the pursuit of peace. Nepalese soldiers have served the United Nations with dedication and professionalism. Nepal will continue to serve the cause of peace by responding positively and promptly to every call for assistance from the United Nations. 27 The adoption of An Agenda for Development this year, following protracted and tortuous negotiations over a period of three years, is a welcome sign for the renewal of development cooperation between the North and South. The Agenda identifies groups of countries in special need: least developed countries, Africa, landlocked developing countries, small island developing countries and countries with transitional economies. The usefulness of the Agenda will be measured only in terms of its faithful implementation. The provision of additional resources on an assured and predictable basis is a prerequisite to the sustainable development of the least developed and landlocked countries. The decision of the General Assembly last year establishing the First United Nations Decade for the Eradication of Poverty represents the long-awaited recognition by the international community of the pervasive nature of poverty, which today is the greatest threat to peace, sustainable development and human rights. The eradication of poverty, therefore, should be a core activity of the United Nations. We recognize that this is the principal thrust of the reform measures and proposals of the Secretary-General. I wish once again to pledge my country’s full support and cooperation to the Secretary- General in this regard. Poverty alleviation is the priority area of sustainable development planning in Nepal. A massive programme is needed to reduce poverty in a meaningful way. The rapid decline of living standards today in almost all the least developed countries and developing landlocked countries is an ironic testimony to the gross marginalization of those countries, despite the new trade regime that is supposed to usher in an era of prosperity throughout the world. This anomaly is further compounded by the accelerating reduction of official development assistance to the least developed countries. For the least developed countries, and the landlocked among them, which suffer from additional physical handicaps, foreign direct investment cannot be a substitute for official development assistance for some time to come. I would like to affirm Nepal’s unreserved condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and our determination to prevent terrorists from deriving benefit from their acts. It is our firm position that terrorism is a threat to both internal and international security and to peaceful relations between States. It is, moreover, a threat to the growth and functioning of democratic institutions and to the enjoyment of human rights all over the world. Nepal will never allow its territory to be used by terrorists against other countries. Nepal holds the view that States should create an environment in which people do not have to be displaced or flee their countries as refugees. The number of such people is in millions and, in the words of the Secretary- General, unquantifiable. Nepal is also bearing the burden of refugees. Nepal being a least developed and landlocked country struggling to cope with the rising aspirations of its people in a parliamentary set-up with deep human- rights commitments, the burden is painful for us. We have received international humanitarian assistance, for which we are grateful. The magnitude of the problem for us can be judged by the fact that one in every 200 people in Nepal today is a refugee. We uphold the right of the refugees to return to their home in peace and honour. His Majesty’s Government of Nepal is determined to solve the problem peacefully by dialogue. Nepal is a founding member of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC). Nepal is actively pursuing a policy of promoting regional cooperation and understanding under the umbrella of SAARC, an Association which forms a critical part of our broad policy of peace, friendship and cooperation with all countries of the world in conformity with the Charter of the United Nations and non-alignment. The seven countries of the region are engaged in various areas of cooperation, including the suppression of terrorism and drug abuse, environmental preservation, poverty alleviation and the promotion of regional trade. We are endeavouring to harmonize the policies of the seven member countries on important global issues. We did so during the nineteenth special session of the General Assembly devoted to environment and sustainable development. Many ministerial meetings in the region are now annual events. Foreign Ministers of the region will be meeting in New York in an informal setting during the annual session of the General Assembly. SAARC has lagged behind other similar associations, but the countries of the region are persevering in their efforts to develop both the habit and concrete measures of cooperation.  ﻿I congratulate you, Sir, on assuming the presidency of the fifty-second session of the General Assembly and pledge to you our full support and cooperation. I also pay tribute to your predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail, whose devoted efforts enabled the fifty-first session of the General Assembly to come to grips with some of the core issues affecting the future of the United Nations. We meet at a time when a number of profound questions loom large over humankind. Does the international community possess the necessary will and 5 means to make the twenty-first century an era of wider peace, deeper justice and greater prosperity? Can we eradicate poverty and protect the environment? Are we able to ensure that fundamental human rights are respected and promoted throughout the world? Can we reinvigorate the United Nations so that it can be the means to advance these ends? To each of these questions we can and must respond in the affirmative. The Secretary-General, through his recent reform proposals, has provided the international community with a timely compass to help guide the way. In the view of my delegation, the Secretary- General's latest proposals contain a wide spectrum of reforms designed for the overall enhancement of the United Nations system. We are confident that many of the Secretary-General's ideas can be translated into action through open-minded deliberation, with the full participation of Member States at this session. In this respect, I wish to recall the statement of 10 August by the Group of 16, including the Republic of Korea, which expressed support for the Secretary-General's reform initiatives. While institutional reform is a prerequisite for a more efficient United Nations, it is clear that without more reliable financial support the Organization cannot make an efficient transition into the twenty-first century. Only when Member States discharge their financial obligations in full, on time and without conditions will the United Nations safely and smoothly reach its ultimate destination of ensuring a better future for humankind. It is in this spirit that Korea has made it a firm policy to pay its assessed dues in full and on time. We will actively participate in concerted efforts to adopt a more equitable scale of assessment at this session. My Government will consider a gradual move from the contributors' Group C to which Korea presently belongs, to Group B in terms of peacekeeping assessment. This is a reaffirmation of our enduring commitment towards both the financial viability of the United Nations and its efforts to maintain international peace and security. Another crucial task before us is the reform of the Security Council. At the last session, my delegation actively participated in deliberations on the issue, on the basis of our own experiences as a Council member. We share the view that the profound changes in international relations over the past several decades fully warrant expansion of Council membership. Given the diverse and sensitive concerns of all Member States, however, this issue must be handled with the utmost prudence and seriousness. Every effort should be made to work out a consensus formula, while bearing in mind that haste makes waste. One of the most significant and promising developments in international relations over the past half century has been the emergence of a considerable number of medium-power countries with the capability to make a meaningful contribution to the cause of international peace and security. Any plan to reform the Council should provide those countries with opportunities to serve on the Council with reasonable frequency, commensurate with their capabilities and contributions. We also believe that Council reform should be based upon consideration of the problems and shortcomings associated with the Council's operations thus far, particularly with respect to the system of permanent membership and the right of veto. Convinced that more can be done to make the Security Council a more representative, efficient and democratic body, we will remain open-minded and flexible with regard to any proposals that can move this important process in the right direction. As a member of the Security Council for the 1996- 1997 period, the Republic of Korea has made its due contribution to the cause of international peace and security. We have actively participated in reaching important decisions to enhance peace and stability in the countries of some parts of the third world that have been plagued by civil conflicts over the past several years. We also organized, during Korea's presidency of the Council last May, an open debate on the refugee issue. The debate resulted in the adoption of a presidential statement in June on protection for humanitarian assistance to refugees and others in conflict situations. This clearly reflects the fact that the Security Council has come to recognize that security applies to people as much as to States in an era of intra-State conflicts. Despite many positive developments in the security landscape of the post Cold-War era, the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction remains a priority concern to people and Governments alike. My Government believes that universal adherence to the existing non- proliferation regimes represents an essential step towards realizing that common objective. In this regard, we welcome the entry into force of the Chemical Weapons Convention, and urge those States which have not yet acceded to the Convention, including North Korea, to do so at the earliest date. 6 The proliferation and indiscriminate use of anti- personnel landmines has been the cause of enormous human suffering and injury, particularly among civilians. Given the magnitude of the scourge of anti-personnel landmines, the Republic of Korea has decided to extend for an indefinite period its moratorium on the export of anti- personnel landmines, which was to expire at the end of this year. We believe, however, that each country's legitimate security concerns should be given due consideration in addressing this matter. I wish to reiterate that, while we fully support the noble crusade to protect innocent civilians from anti- personnel landmines, a sweeping ban cannot be a satisfactory answer for a country like the Republic of Korea, which faces the real and present risk of a recurrence of all-out war, and whose heavily populated capital is only 25 miles from the military demarcation line. In our view, the draft convention adopted in Oslo two weeks ago does not fully accommodate concerns which we have consistently expressed, or the exceptional nature of the security situation on the Korean peninsula. The international community has consistently endeavoured to wipe out all forms of terrorism from the face of the earth. However, terrorism still persists as one of the major threats to international peace, exacting a heavy toll on innocent lives. The Republic of Korea has experienced many barbaric and cowardly acts of terrorism and still lives under its constant threat, including recent open threats aimed at our free press. We strongly support international efforts to combat terrorism and underline the importance of upholding the principle of zero tolerance. Given the global spectrum of terrorism, we also believe that the United Nations can play a central role in strengthening the international anti-terrorism regime. In this regard, we look forward to an early adoption of the convention for the suppression of terrorist bombings. In this era of interdependence among States, the international community cannot remain indifferent to the under-development of much of the world. My delegation therefore welcomes the adoption of the Agenda for Development at the previous session of the General Assembly and the Secretary-General's reform proposals designed to enhance the United Nations economic and social initiatives as well as its development activities. For that reason, we support the Secretary-General's suggestion to enhance the coordinating role of the Economic and Social Council and to strengthen cooperation between the United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions. We expect that the various proposals for a funding modality for United Nations development activities will be discussed fully at this session. Korea, now a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, will participate more vigorously in South-South cooperation projects with a view to playing a bridging role between developed and developing countries. In an effort to expand assistance to the least developed countries, we have participated in bilateral cooperation projects with the Economic Commission for Africa since 1995, and we plan to undertake a programme for the development of Africa for the period 1998 to 2000. My Government, jointly with the United Nations Development Programme, established in Seoul this past May the International Vaccine Institute. This Institute is devoted to the research and development of vaccines for children around the world, particularly those in developing countries. The inaugural meeting of its board of trustees is scheduled to convene in Seoul next month. We look forward to generous support from Member States for this worthy goal of keeping our children free from debilitating diseases. Turning now to environmental issues, my Government welcomes the adoption of the Programme for Further Implementation of Agenda 21 at the nineteenth special session of the General Assembly and stands committed to participating faithfully in its implementation. In particular, we are pleased that Korea's proposal to conduct a feasibility study on the transfer of publicly owned technology was supported by developed and developing countries alike and was included in the Programme. The results of the feasibility study, which is being funded by my Government, will be presented at the sixth session of the Commission on Sustainable Development next April. Through these efforts, we hope to expedite the transfer of environmentally sound technologies and to promote international cooperation for environmental protection. During the special session, there was also an in- depth discussion on the safe management of radioactive waste, an issue of serious concern to many countries. My Government attaches great importance to the fact that the special session adopted a comprehensive set of arrangements on the environmentally sound management of these dangerous wastes. We strongly urge that these arrangements be firmly and strictly adhered to and respected. 7 With regard to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, we hope that a realistic and achievable outcome will emerge at the Kyoto Conference to be held in December this year. Next year marks the fiftieth anniversary of the adoption and proclamation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In 1998, we are also to undertake the five- year mid-term review of the implementation of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action adopted in June 1993. In the view of my delegation, human rights is an area where the United Nations has made significant contributions over the past half century, not just as an international forum for discussion, but also as a centre for coordinated action. Seen from this perspective, the consolidation of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Centre for Human Rights, as proposed in the Secretary- General's report, should certainly inject new vitality into United Nations efforts to enhance the coordination of its activities in the area of human rights. I wholeheartedly welcome Mary Robinson's assumption of the post of High Commissioner. My Government also welcomes the remarkable progress made by the Preparatory Committee on the Establishment of an International Criminal Court, which we believe will serve as an effective deterrent against violations of international humanitarian law. We expect that the forthcoming conference in Rome will adopt the statute of the court, paving the way for its establishment at the earliest possible date. From a historical perspective, the creation of a permanent international criminal court will set a benchmark for the attainment of international criminal justice in the coming century. As rightly pointed out in the Secretary-General's report, the developments in the present decade have clearly strengthened the argument that respect for human rights is a precondition for political stability and socio-economic progress. One of the United Nations' most compelling responsibilities is to further promote universal respect for human rights and deter gross human rights abuses and political oppression. In this context, we are gravely concerned at the dire human rights situation in North Korea. We truly hope that, in the not-too-distant future, our compatriots in the North will come to enjoy basic human rights and freedoms, as other peoples do around the world. Let me now turn to the situation on the Korean Peninsula. In April last year, the Republic of Korea and the United States jointly proposed four-party talks, involving the South and the North of Korea, the United States and China, which aim to establish a permanent peace mechanism on the Korean Peninsula and build mutual trust between the two sides of Korea. The four-party talks, when realized, will offer rare chances of facilitating peace and security on the Korean Peninsula and throughout North-east Asia. If inter-Korean relations are to move forward and the outstanding problems of the Peninsula are to be resolved peacefully, there is no alternative to dialogue and reconciliation between the South and the North of Korea. We sincerely hope that North Korea will realize the importance and value of improved inter-Korean relations through its participation in the four-party talks. While the talks are in the interest of all concerned, no one stands to benefit more than North Korea itself. The construction of a solid and durable peace structure on the Korean Peninsula will also produce generous dividends which can help North Korea in addressing a host of domestic challenges it faces, including its economic difficulties. It is regrettable that the recent preparatory meetings for the four-party talks ended without any tangible result. Nevertheless, we will continue our patient effort to engage North Korea in a process of dialogue. We appreciate the continued support of the international community to this end. In the meantime, the Republic of Korea will continue to provide humanitarian assistance to North Korea. The plight of innocent civilians in the North and, in particular, vulnerable groups such as malnourished children, is a matter of serious concern for the Government and people of the Republic of Korea. As a matter of priority, my Government will provide assistance to the vulnerable children in North Korea in close cooperation with the United Nations Children's Fund and other interested countries. In this connection, we would like to stress the vital importance of transparency in the distribution process. We hope that such transparency can be enhanced through more effective monitoring by the international organizations concerned. This year has seen some positive developments in international efforts to resolve the long-standing North Korean nuclear issue. The 1994 Geneva Agreed Framework has now entered the implementation stage, with the ground-breaking ceremony for the light-water reactor project in North Korea last month under the auspices of the Korean Peninsula Energy Development 8 Organization (KEDO). For the first time in nearly five decades, over 100 engineers and technicians of both sides of Korea are working together on the construction site. We hope that this welcome development will be a harbinger of a new era in inter-Korean relations. My Government takes this opportunity to express its appreciation to all those countries which have extended generous financial contributions to KEDO. While the ongoing light-water reactor project undertaken by KEDO is an important step forward in eliminating the threat of nuclear proliferation in the Korean peninsula, it must be emphasized here once again that the ultimate resolution of the North Korean nuclear issue is possible only when North Korea complies fully with its safeguards agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency, as well as with the Joint Declaration on the Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula signed by the South and North Korea in 1991. When the United Nations was founded in 1945, who could have foreseen the extent to which international relations would develop during the next half-century? No doubt, a number of geopolitical structural changes will occur in the coming century as well. At the threshold of the twenty-first century, this session of the General Assembly could well prove to be a turning point by providing a forum for reconfiguring the architecture and priorities of the Organization. Facing a new array of challenges, this session should point the way towards a brighter future and a renewed sense of optimism. Together, we can forge a stronger United Nations and, through it, the foundation for a century of peace, prosperity and justice. The Republic of Korea stands ready to do its due part.  ﻿I extend to the President of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session the sincere congratulations of the delegation of the Republic of Guinea on his election. At the same time, I have the pleasant duty to transmit to him the warmest greetings of the people and Government of Guinea and, in particular, of the President of the Republic, General Lansana Conte. Mr. Udovenko’s wealth of experience in multilateral diplomacy, to which he has devoted a major part of his life, together with his outstanding personal qualities, ensures the success of our deliberations. As Vice- President of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session, and because of the long-standing and excellent relations of friendship that link my country with his — Ukraine — I assure him of the full cooperation of my delegation. Furthermore, I should like to express the deep appreciation of my delegation for the effectiveness and competence shown by his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Razali Ismail, in conducting the debates of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. I should also like to congratulate the Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan, on the outstanding work he has accomplished since the beginning of his term, and on the submission on 14 July this year of his programme for reform. I should like to assure him of the confidence and support of the Republic of Guinea. In addition, I wish to pay tribute to the former Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who deserves credit for beginning consideration of the subject. Some have wished to call this fifty-second session the Assembly of reform, and we are in agreement. The document (A/51/950) submitted for debate, “Renewing The United Nations: A Programme for Reform”, has been examined extremely carefully by my Government. We must admit that the United Nations in its current form is a long way from corresponding to the geopolitical realities of today’s world. Since its creation 50 years ago, and in particular since 1989, the world has changed greatly. We cannot fail to change along with it. It is true that results in the area of peacekeeping and international security have been extremely positive. Many major treaties and conventions have been concluded, including the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and the Chemical Weapons Convention. The international community has also made a firm and prompt commitment to the Ottawa process on banning anti-personnel landmines, a process in which the Republic of Guinea took a particularly active part. We should also welcome the implementation of peacekeeping operations in many parts of the world and, an extremely positive sign, an improvement in public administration, increased democracy and the strengthening 17 of the ability of nations to promote human rights in the interests of better governance. But, in spite of this considerable progress, many imbalances remain, major challenges are still before us and the nascent globalization is not, as a spirit of international solidarity would demand, benefiting developing countries, which have tended to fall by the wayside on the road to progress. Many countries are still labouring under the burden of debt, which is crippling their economies and thereby compromising their development efforts. In full view of the international community, thinly disguised protectionism prevents our products from gaining access to buoyant markets. When, taking one year with another, some of our products manage to overcome these barriers, they often succumb to prices stemming from rules that are sometimes fixed unilaterally or flouted with impunity. This is compounded by the harmful effects of the decline in official development assistance in spite of the Rio commitments. So-called small arms are proliferating on our borders and are posing serious threats to the peace, security and stability of many countries. This short list does not nearly cover all the defects we have to correct. Courageous and consensual reform of the United Nations could help us to do away with these ills, which are compromising, through uncertainty, the future of many nations represented here. We must reassure our peoples, not just by drafting new standard-setting instruments that are legally binding on us all, but, above all, by taking drastic action, channelling our will and joint efforts to change the situation on the ground. The spirit of the Marshall Plan, which the United Nations should espouse, should not die with the century that saw its birth. For all these reasons, the Republic of Guinea approves the reform proposed by the Secretary-General. For all these reasons it is also deeply involved in the debate that will make it a reality. We will not go into all the positive aspects here; we will simply confine ourselves to a few points, especially those that directly affect developing countries. I begin with the economy, the new cornerstone of the system after disarmament. Several economic measures go in the right direction. We support the initiative to create a United Nations Development Group, an Office of Development Financing and a new system for multi-year pledges for development cooperation thanks to savings on administrative expenses, the first fruits of reform. The same applies to strengthening the role of the Economic and Social Council and promoting dialogue with the technical ministries of our countries to give impetus to macroeconomic policies. We also set great store by the proclamation of the International Decade to Eliminate Poverty and especially in concrete measures to eradicate the evil of poverty. The Republic of Guinea puts women and children at the heart of its development, and welcomes the attention given to the promotion of women and children. In the same vein, Guinea supports the implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s and the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative on Africa. My delegation supports other aspects which are equally important for the restructuring under consideration, especially the merger of institutions in the Organization with similar activities, such as the creation in Vienna of a single Office to combat transnational crime, drug-trafficking and terrorism, evils we should all fight against wherever they may rear their head, and the amalgamation of the Centre for Human Rights with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. The problem of the environment knows no boundaries. If we are not careful, this may be the greatest danger we face, since many perils are lurking, smouldering beneath the surface of the anarchy in this matter. It should be the sacred duty of the international community to ensure the lasting health of our planet for ourselves and for future generations. This is why we welcome the organization of a special session on the environment and development. We have presented the proliferation of small arms as a subject of concern to African countries. These weapons, which unfortunately lend themselves to all types of conflict, large or small, pose a real danger. We therefore strongly support the idea of creating a Department for Disarmament and Arms Regulation. If it is to be fully effective, it should be given adequate resources and genuine power to monitor the cross-border movement of these weapons. 18 What is true of the Organization as a whole is even more true of the Security Council. The times we live in have made its reform essential. Nevertheless, when we deal with this important and delicate issue, we should avoid confrontation between regions and different groups and try not to resort to useless polemics. On the one hand, we should perhaps understand that we will not be able to do everything at once, or else we will stymie the debate. Our main goal should be significantly to change a status quo which we all feel has had its day. On the other hand, if we put ourselves in the shoes of those who are enjoying permanent seats and the right of veto, we should recognize that it is difficult, even human, but not impossible, to agree to give up, without a fight, the considerable advantages won after the war after a brave struggle. But, once peace has been achieved, it would be pointless if time were not able, after half a century, to heal the wounds of defeat and cast out the memories of war. Security Council reform must be one of the major proofs of a reconciliation patiently achieved. This is only one aspect of the issue. If the desire to disarm is sincere and universally shared by all members of the international community, as decisive progress could lead us to hope is the case, then the concept of power should no longer be measured by a country’s mass destruction capabilities. After the cold war, the end of the arms race and of the confrontation of ideologies, the struggle — perhaps we should say “competition” — is shifting to other arenas, particularly the economic arena and ensuring people’s happiness. In the process, many countries which not long ago were considered small because of the size of their economies are outstripping nations which have seen their former glory fade. The formidable progress in communications has inexorably reduced distances and gulfs separating the levels of knowledge and development in the different parts of the world. Together, let us square up to these new realities, with justice and democracy as our point of reference but above all, with a clear view of humanity united on the basis of a fruitful and trusting partnership, ensuring progress and well- being for all. And let us courageously decide now on what is possible, even if it means postponing matters until the year 2000, when we can put the finishing touches to what we will not have done today. In the debate this session, Africa, in its constant quest for consensus, has modest ambitions. We would consider two permanent seats in the Security Council, with the same rights for all, pursuant to the resolutions of the summit in Harare, as positive results. The delegation of the Republic of Guinea will fight for this during what it hopes will be a calm and constructive debate. The United Nations is essential for today and tomorrow. If it did not exist, we would have had to invent it. The United Nations, as a special and irreplaceable place for 185 States to meet, work together and cooperate, must lay down rules of law recognized universally by all so that international relations can continue in a coherent, equitable and efficient manner. Structural reform, however perfect, cannot be fully effective without adequate financing of the Organization’s operations and, above all, of its activities. Reform must necessarily be accompanied by consistent funding. Without reducing this important aspect of the question solely to the payment of the contributions owed by many countries, the delegation of Guinea wishes to state that its reaction to the statement by the President of the country that is the largest contributor was a positive one. Nevertheless, in keeping with the principle that the rules that have hitherto governed the Organization are still in effect, the payment of arrears by all Member States must precede the opening of negotiations to work out a new scale of assessments satisfactory to all. While bearing in mind that our common destiny should be the background to our statements before the Assembly, I would like to point out that each region and subregion comes to this rostrum with its own pressing concerns. The subregion of western Africa, to which my country, the Republic of Guinea, belongs has been shaken by two fratricidal conflicts in Liberia and in Sierra Leone. In Liberia, the recent democratic and transparent elections held on 19 July 1997 under the aegis of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), with the support of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), the United Nations and such friendly countries as the United States of America, the Netherlands, Denmark and France, have been crowned with success. We welcome the Ministerial Meeting of the 19 Special Conference on Liberia that is taking place today in the Trusteeship Council Chamber, and we hope that it will lead to the mobilization of substantial resources for the rebuilding of that fraternal country. The consolidation of peace and stability there is at stake. The Republic of Guinea, faithful to its policy of peace and good-neighbourliness, has worked unflaggingly for the success of such efforts. For the record, it will be recalled that this is the first time that an African subregional organization, determined to shoulder its responsibilities, has managed to initiate, lead and successfully carry out a peacekeeping operation. We would also like to salute here the support being given by the international community to ECOWAS for the restoration of constitutional legitimacy in Sierra Leone, which was the victim of a coup d’état on 25 May 1997. The consequences of the conflicts in Liberia, which lasted for seven years, and in Sierra Leone, which has been going on for six years, have weighed heavily on the Republic of Guinea. These are two neighbouring countries that share hundreds of kilometres of frontiers with Guinea. We have had to take in hundreds of thousands of refugees and displaced persons. The Republic of Guinea, a country of 7 million inhabitants, has up to 650,000 refugees, or one tenth of its population. In taking in the refugees it has had to pay a heavy price and make enormous sacrifices. In the border areas the environment and infrastructures have deteriorated under the demographic pressure. Schools have been closed to serve as shelters for refugees. We have also had to cope with many health problems of all kinds. Because of this exceptional situation the members of ECOWAS, meeting at Conakry on 26 June 1997, launched an appeal for emergency assistance for the Republic of Guinea. That appeal is beginning to be heeded by many countries and international organizations.Here we would like to thank most warmly the People’s Republic of China, the State of Kuwait, the United States of America, France, Canada, Qatar, Italy and the Organization of African Unity, which have already demonstrated their solidarity with us. I would be remiss if, out of a desire to inform the Assembly of the problems of western Africa, I failed to give due attention to conflicts tearing other African countries and other regions of the world asunder. With regard to the Great Lakes region, my delegation would encourage all initiatives to establish a climate of peace and stability in that area. Similarly, we would like to voice our concern at the deterioration of the situation in the Congo. While urging the parties to the conflict to observe the ceasefire and persevere in their efforts at negotiation, we reaffirm our support for the tireless efforts being made by all those of goodwill to reach a settlement of that crisis. Turning to Western Sahara, the Republic of Guinea welcomes the appointment of a new Personal Envoy of the Secretary-General for Western Sahara and hopes that the personal input of that diplomat will foster the peaceful implementation of the United Nations settlement plan. Other parts of the world are also experiencing unrest that threatens international peace and security. We shall confine ourselves here to the situation in the Middle East. The Republic of Guinea encourages the efforts being made to find a just and lasting settlement in the Middle East. Notwithstanding current difficulties, we must persevere. Peace, a just and equitable peace between Israel and its Arab neighbours, is essential. Peace will remake that region in the interests of all its peoples and turn it into a magnet for all the nations of the world. The only way to achieve that is through negotiation. In the prevention, management and resolution of conflicts, Africa is increasingly shouldering its own responsibilities. This new approach is in keeping with current developments, and the international community should encourage and support it. The Republic of Guinea, which pursues a policy of peace and economic development under the leadership of a man of peace and tolerance, the President of the Republic, Brigadier General Lansana Conté, will be prepared, as in the past, to bear its share of responsibility for solving African problems. A dark cloud always has a silver lining. It is comforting to note that life on the African continent is not confined to crises and conflicts. The struggle of African peoples to emerge from poverty has made striking progress in recent years. The needs of economic development have compelled all African countries to adapt their State institutions and redirect their policies to cope with the changes of the new era. 20 Today, there are many bilateral and multilateral initiatives to help Africa get off the ground. Most of those initiatives draw on the lessons of the past and, happily, avoid the imposition of patterns or stereotypes; they take into account the real needs of the African people, who are increasingly involved in the choice of development plans and programmes. Measures to convert, suspend or write off debts are part of that process. We face major challenges, whose diversity and complexity concern us and call for urgent solutions commensurate with the expectations and aspirations of our peoples. The Republic of Guinea is confident that the current session will produce decisions enabling our Organization fully to carry out its noble mission as we approach the third millennium. I conclude on that note of hope and optimism.  ﻿I extend my warmest congratulations to you, Mr. President, on your election. I am sure you will guide us well, and we look forward to working with you. I would also like to congratulate our Secretary-General on the excellent start he has made in answer to the Members’ call for reform. At the same time, I would like to thank the outgoing President for his support in this most important work. You take office at a critical time, Mr President. There are obviously no easy solutions to the many challenges faced by our Organization. But there is one thing I hope we can all do: be positive and constructive in our approach. With this in mind, I would like to comment briefly on two aspects of current United Nations work that particularly concern us in Brunei Darussalam. The first is peace and security and the second is the Secretary-General’s reform package. On peace and security, we were pleased to have had the chance to do something to help in the Middle East and in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But we have been dismayed by what has taken place this year, particularly in the Middle East. The current situation is not what we expected. The disruption of the peace process clearly started when Israel decided to build settlements in East Jerusalem. This was bad policy. It was obviously not aimed at helping the peace process. Thus, we would like to see the Israelis do something positive to repair the damage done. We have made our position clear for many years. We do not wish to return to the past. It is time for more than words, arguments and resolutions. What we want to see is a peace process that actually proceeds. Somehow, the impasse must be broken, and we greatly appreciate the efforts being made by Jordan, Egypt and the United States to do that. We encourage them and all countries that can help to continue their efforts, despite the many difficulties. Concerning the situation in Bosnia, we have also been disappointed by the way certain elements continue to undermine the cause of peace. There are overwhelming signs from the peoples of Bosnia that they welcome the new opportunities they have for a normal life. We are therefore pleased to see the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the United Nations taking strong action to enforce the Dayton Agreement. In our view, such action is definitely being taken on behalf of the Bosnian people. We offer them our full support. These are just two of the areas where we have seen setbacks to United Nations efforts. We can add many others in Europe, Asia and Africa. What is required everywhere is a determination to resolve all problems peacefully by means of dialogue and negotiation. Given that spirit, progress is possible. We have seen evidence of it in the great efforts being made in northeast Asia to try to find a solution to the problems on the Korean Peninsula. The difficult situation in Korea could affect all of us in the Asia-Pacific region, so we very much welcome the four-party talks as a way of reducing tension and building confidence. For the same reason, we are happy to support the initiative of the Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization (KEDO), since it will help remove one serious threat to peace. On the question of lasting peace, however, we have learned to take nothing for granted. Some causes of instability have been dramatically highlighted in our own region this year. The recent attacks on our currencies and our financial institutions have shocked us all. They cannot be dismissed as mere ups and downs in the market. It is all very well for commentators to say so, but this is not good enough; it is too simplistic. The effect is like a disease, and it goes for the heart of our economic systems. It seeks out weak points, and developing countries have limited built-in resistance. Yes, we will survive. Our foundations are sound. But the experience has taught us a lesson. We are realizing how deeply we are all affected by globalization, market forces and interdependence. The playing field is anything but level, and this means that the world organizations to which we belong must be highly effective. The most important of these is the United Nations, and this brings me to the questions I know the Secretary- General is keen to hear all of us answer at this session: What do we think of his package of proposed reforms? Are they going to help developing nations? My broad reply would be to say that we think the package is better than the previous attempts to achieve reform. Overall, it firmly addresses the right questions, 4 and, having long supported the idea of United Nations reform, we welcome the proposals. However, we do have a few comments to offer. We believe they are constructive and hope they will be taken into account by the Secretary-General. As many others have remarked, the proposal seems, basically, to be a management package. It reflects the Secretary-General’s long experience in the Organization. But good management principles represent only one aspect of the reforms we need. We hope that an acceptable consensus will be reached on matters which especially concern developing nations. We would like the Secretary-General to make absolutely sure that nothing is going to weaken the things the United Nations does so well for ordinary people. The United Nations work in the field gives the Organization meaning for millions. We must not let our agencies down. With regard to the proposals concerning peace and security, we hope that the Working Group will soon complete its work on the Security Council. This aspect of reform will certainly strengthen the Organization as a whole. With regard to development cooperation, we welcome efforts to enhance it. It represents all that is best in international cooperation. It is also directly linked to the important Chapter IX of our Charter, which calls for higher standards of living, full employment and economic and social progress. Without these, there can be no lasting peace and security in the developing world. Lastly, there is the question of financial viability, perhaps the most important of all if reforms are to be effective. We find the various proposals interesting, but what we are concerned about is whether they provide a long-term solution. We therefore want to give these matters more thought. Naturally, we rely on the Committee to look very carefully indeed into the details of any such scheme. Having made these points, I should like to conclude by once again offering my congratulations to the Secretary- General on his work. As I said, it is a good start. When the work is finished, we hope that the result will be not only administrative reform but a strong renewal of the deepest principles of our Charter. We wish the Secretary-General, and you yourself, Mr. President, much success in the year ahead. We assure you that we will do all we can to assist fellow Members in responding well to what the Secretary-General has rightly described as unprecedented demands and opportunities.   ﻿The General Assembly has unanimously chosen you, Mr. President, to guide the work of the fifty-second session. This decision is a tribute to your outstanding personal qualities as a diplomat and a statesman, and at the same time a tribute to your vast experience in international relations. It also shows how much the international community appreciates the role played by your country, Ukraine, in the management of the major issues that characterize the evolution of world affairs. My country is pleased to express to you its warmest congratulations and best wishes for success in the execution of this noble mission. I would like to pay tribute to your predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia, for the competence and open-mindedness with which he guided the work of the fifty-first session of our General Assembly. We extend to him our deep gratitude. I would like to extend to the new Secretary-General of our Organization, Mr. Kofi Annan, my warmest congratulations. The election of Mr. Kofi Annan last 17 December was a tribute to the exceptional qualities of a man who has devoted his entire life to United Nations causes. I wish him every success in the important mission entrusted to him. I am convinced that he will do honour to our continent, Africa, and successfully lead our Organization into the next millennium. The world’s family of nations is once again meeting, as it does every year, to examine the current situation and, at the same time, to chart the course of progress for the 12 months to come. While making its contribution to this exercise in collective reflection, my country, Senegal, would like to associate itself with all of those who find hope for a better future for humankind in our Organization, because it is based on peace and solidarity. In fact, the United Nations remains an irreplaceable instrument for the promotion of peace, security and progress in the world, thanks to its universal character, to the international culture and ethics that it expresses and inspires and to its positive accomplishments. Two years ago, on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, the international community stressed here, unanimously, the irreplaceable nature of the framework for reflection, discussion, synthesis and coordination of international life that the United Nations provides. In fact, the United Nations has been and remains a multidimensional symbol. The United Nations is, first, an indispensable tool for safeguarding global peace and security. Further, the United Nations is above all a source of new hope for many men and women who suffer from exile, hunger, poverty or illness. And lastly, the United Nations is a tool for the promotion of democracy, human rights and development — in other words, of justice among individuals, peoples, cultures and civilizations. In this light, we have made it one of our highest priorities to improve the capacities and the ability of the Organization to better tackle the challenges of today’s world. We have done so while affirming that “In order to be able to respond effectively to the challenges of the future and the expectations of the United Nations held by peoples around the world, it is essential that the United Nations itself be reformed and modernized.” (Declaration on the Occasion of the Fiftieth Anniversary of the United Nations, resolution 50/6, para. 14) We are pleased to note today that this conviction has begun to be reflected in deeds. In fact, led by the dynamism of our Secretary-General, the United Nations has now embarked on a vast reform effort, unprecedented in the history of this institution. More specifically, on 16 July last Mr. Kofi Annan submitted to the General Assembly proposals for reforms that will make the United Nations the cornerstone of an international system better adapted to the realities of the twenty-first century. I would like to express all my gratitude to the Secretary-General and his collaborators for the commendable efforts and energy that they have applied to the development of proposals as bold as they are relevant. Senegal is now examining all these proposals in close coordination with its fellow members of the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the Non- Aligned Movement. Senegal will do this while bearing in mind the political will expressed by all to undertake, within an appropriate time period, the necessary reforms, especially in the fields of development, maintenance of international peace and security, disarmament and promotion of human rights, so that the Organization can better respond to the demands of our day and to the aspirations of the peoples for which it was created. The Head of State of Senegal, His Excellency Mr. Abdou Diouf, has already provided the necessary guidelines and resources for this examination. In this framework, the reform of the Security Council requires the special attention of all Member States and, at the same time, a common will to be faithful to the ideal of peace that was inscribed in the Charter in San Francisco in 1945. The Working Group charged with examining this question has made considerable progress, even though consensus has yet to be found on such fundamental issues as expansion, composition and use of the veto in the Security Council. Nonetheless, we can and must underscore, welcome and support the many constructive and often complementary proposals that have been submitted and that have visibly enriched the debates over the course of the past year. We now must stay on track and redouble our efforts in order to take advantage of the momentum thus established and to succeed ultimately in our objective of restructuring the Security Council while modernizing it, making it more democratic and giving it greater credibility and greater transparency — and thus greater legitimacy. Africa has a natural role to play in this reform, a role that must be recognized given Africa’s historical evolution and its destiny as a continent of the future in the community of nations. The reform of the United Nations system towards greater coherence and greater dynamism is important, but equally urgent is the need for the maintenance and promotion of peace in the world. It is true that significant progress has been made in this area in recent years. Thus, the United Nations has succeeded in substantially strengthening its capacity to plan, establish and conduct peacekeeping missions throughout the world. My country, Senegal, is pleased to have been able to contribute to this progress, through, inter alia, the posting of officers from its army to the Secretariat in New York so that the various aspects of peacekeeping operations could be better rationalized. 2 But the desired improvement should not be limited to procedural matters, even though we must recognize that these matters are clearly important. Above all, we must also re-examine the orientation of United Nations missions in all cases in which peace in the world is threatened or breached. The international community must, in particular, be more realistic in the missions it confers upon the United Nations Blue Helmets. In this context, drawing lessons from operations such as that conducted in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we must recognize something quite clear: by the rules of engagement established for them, the United Nations forces are not yet legally equipped to restore peace in theatres of operation where peace has been broken. Therefore, it seems to us more appropriate to entrust such missions to the Members of the United Nations that agree to conduct them in the framework of coalitions placed under the moral authority, but not the command, of our Organization. We would thus avoid giving mandates to United Nations soldiers without in turn giving them the legal, human and material means that are essential to the accomplishment of their missions. This choice is all the more desirable since multifaceted conflicts continue to afflict many regions of the world, starting, unfortunately, with Africa, our own continent. There significant progress has been made this year on the road to restoring peace in a certain number of countries, in particular in Liberia, which — thanks to the determination of the countries of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the support of the international community — has just emerged from seven years of fratricidal conflict. But we must recognize that in the case of other crises, the path towards peace remains uncertain. This applies in particular to Sierra Leone, where the situation remains very disturbing in spite of the initiatives of the United Nations, of the OAU and most especially of ECOWAS to restore legitimacy in that country. In the Congo (Brazzaville), another of our brother countries, the world witnessed a sudden deterioration of the political situation in the military confrontation that began on 5 June 1997. Here again it must be recalled that the combined efforts of the United Nations and the OAU and the lucid and commendable actions of President El Hadj Omar Bongo, President of the Gabonese Republic and also of the international mediation committee, have, unfortunately, not managed to find a political way out of this grave internal crisis, the prolongation of which is a serious threat to peace in the subregion and the continent. Elsewhere on the continent, in Angola and in Somalia, internal conflicts continue to elude resolution. Faced with all the dangers posed by all these conflicts, Africans have established the OAU Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution in Africa. Nonetheless, it is clear that that pan-African organization does not alone possess the means to undertake the many and complex actions required by peacekeeping operations in Africa. Massive support from the international community is therefore particularly needed in this area. This is why I would like once again to commend the convening last 25 September, on the initiative of the President of the Security Council, of a special Council meeting at the ministerial level devoted to the preservation of peace, security and stability in Africa. We would also like to thank our colleague, Mrs. Madeleine Albright, Secretary of State of the United States. That meeting gave eloquent witness to the special importance that the international community attaches to African problems. However, I must emphasize that declarations of intent alone are not enough. We need concrete action. Hence, Senegal attaches great importance to the report that the Secretary-General is soon to submit to us and which is to contain specifically concrete recommendations on the causes of conflict in Africa, on the means of preventing them and, where need be, the means of resolving them in full agreement with our partners in the international community. In this context, we welcome the increasing assistance we are beginning to receive from certain major countries of the northern hemisphere in the framework of the strengthening of Africa’s capacity to maintain peace and react rapidly to crises. In this respect, we cannot but mention France, the United States of America and Canada, as well as other countries of the North. Along 3 those same lines, the inauguration in Copenhagen on 2 September by the Secretary-General of a planning centre for the new United Nations Stand-By Forces High- Readiness Brigade was an event of great importance for conflict prevention throughout the world. Also in the framework of these concerns for Africa, I should like to mention the ongoing conflict between the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya on the one hand and the United States of America and the United Kingdom on the other with respect to the Lockerbie tragedy. We feel that the time is ripe for the parties concerned finally to successfully resolve this matter through dialogue and negotiation because — and this must be stressed once again — the people of Libya are suffering greatly from the embargo to which that country is being subjected. We welcome the significant progress made in the framework of efforts to achieve a definitive peace in the Western Sahara under the auspices of the United Nations and under the guidance of Mr. James Baker, the Personal Envoy of the Secretary-General. The situation in the Middle East continues to be of concern to peace-loving people. Recent developments in the occupied Palestinian territories, the expansion of existing Israeli settlements or the construction of new ones, delays in negotiations — these all have had, to our great regret, a negative impact on the peace process. We would mention also the clear-cut acts of violence perpetrated against defenceless civilians, such as the recent attacks in Jerusalem. All of these acts must be condemned unreservedly because they do enormous damage to the peace efforts. It is for all these reasons that we wish here to make a pressing appeal to the co-sponsors of the peace process and to the entire international community so that the most appropriate initiatives can be taken in order to salvage the peace process. For today, more than any other region of the world, the Middle East truly needs peace and security for its own development. This peace can be achieved only within a framework of mutual trust and the will to live together with respect for the rights and the dignity of all the peoples of the region. Global security also requires arms reduction and the elimination of certain categories of weapons. That is why, for more than 50 years now, the United Nations has attempted to create a world free of all weapons of mass destruction. In the pursuit of this objective, significant progress has already been made. One year ago, we welcomed in this very Hall and with deep satisfaction the conclusion of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. From that point on, the international community was involved in negotiations for a treaty for the elimination of anti-personnel landmines. Senegal, which is a member of the Conference on Disarmament, continues to attach special importance to this question, whose settlement would represent a major step forward towards a world that would offer greater security for all. In this context, we hope to see the Ottawa process, in which we are participants, succeed, by the end of this year, in the signing of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on Their Destruction. Eradicating poverty throughout the world has been and remains one of the fundamental objectives of the United Nations. By proclaiming in the Charter their determination to establish better standards of living in conditions of broader freedom, the founding fathers wanted to make of the United Nations an instrument that would fight for the social progress of all humankind. But at the present time, planet Earth is threatened by global challenges that know no boundaries and that spare no peoples. The world’s problems — poverty, exclusion, terrorism, organized crime and drug-trafficking — have become globalized far earlier than the economy has. That is why, regardless of the way in which we approach the future, the problems that exist at century’s end cannot be resolved except through concerted and integrated action that can manage harmoniously all of the upheaval that is accompanying this changing period of history. It is in this context that Senegal welcomes the successful conclusion of negotiations on the elaboration of an Agenda for Development. The consensus achieved in that Agenda, which draws its substance from earlier commitments in the various plans of action of recent international conferences, gives evidence of our shared faith in the virtues of a new global partnership for development based on the imperative of interdependence and on mutual benefit. Thus the conceptual framework has been set and accepted by all, and it remains for us to move towards action through a mobilization of resources commensurate with the generous intentions formulated in the Agenda for Development. Along these lines, the settlement of the debt crisis, just remuneration for commodities, the lifting of trade 4 barriers and an increase in official development assistance are indispensable prerequisites if we are to build a world that is more welcoming to everyone, so that our global village can be strengthened, in a spirit of solidarity, in a lasting way. In this context, the fight against poverty is of clear priority, because it is unacceptable, in this era of space technology and the Internet, that millions of men and women the world over, and especially in the southern hemisphere, still do not have the minimal conditions for a decent life. They lack water, electricity, medicine, food — in a word, they lack security and well-being. The aspirations of peoples to a better life is an eternal quest that we cannot neglect, as it is true that human beings must remain at the very beginning and end of development. In this quest for lasting solutions to the challenges of underdevelopment, my country took the initiative, at the thirty-third Summit of the OAU, held in Harare in June, to suggest two resolutions through which the Heads of State and Government of Africa unanimously renewed their support for the United Nations system in general and for the action taken by Africa in particular to raise the standard of living of African peoples. But this need for solidarity should not cause us to forget that any effort towards sustainable development is, above all, the national responsibility of States. It requires the definition and effective application of sound macroeconomic policies based on transparency, the rule of law, the practice of democracy, respect for human rights, social justice and the participation of all in the national development effort: in other words, it is based on what we today call good governance. As my country sees it, this choice, which must be supplemented by solidarity at the global level, is the most certain course towards the shared ideal assigned to us by the Charter of the United Nations. By enshrining in our Charter their attachment to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, the founding fathers of the United Nations inspired millions of men and women to take what His Holiness Pope John Paul II called two years ago “the risk of freedom”. Their commendable struggle means that today, respect for these rights and these freedoms is universally considered to be an essential component of any undertaking whose goal is the progress and well-being of the individual. My country, Senegal, which attaches profound importance to the dignity and value of the human being, would like here to reiterate its commitment to continue to work alongside those many who are struggling to obtain or regain their right to freedom, justice and peace. This solidarity applies to our brothers and sisters in Palestine, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Libya, Afghanistan, Somalia, the Great Lakes region and elsewhere, who aspire only to peace in order to build their own future. I would like, in this framework, to commend the appointment of Mrs. Mary Robinson to the post of United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. We assure her of our support and wish her every success in her noble mission. The universal nature of the United Nations is a reality that must be consolidated and strengthened. In this context, we support without reservation the request of the Republic of China to join again the community of nations and be admitted to our Organization and its specialized agencies. Acceding to this request would be a significant contribution to the consolidation of the ideal of universality of the United Nations and do justice to the esteemed people of the Republic of China. Its economic and social development, commitment to democratic values and international behaviour have given irrefutable proof of its faith in the noble objectives of the United Nations Charter and of its capacity to assume the responsibilities of all Member States. When the Berlin wall crumbled in 1989, great hope was aroused in the citizens of the world. Hope was born of rapid movement towards a new international order which would bring with it peace and justice as well as solidarity and progress. In this new international order, the Republic of China has a place, a place recognized by international law and the demands of a rapidly developing world. In conclusion, I would like to say that the international community must do everything in its power to have hope triumph over the dangers menacing humankind. The human race’s God-given intelligence provides the possibilities and resources to achieve this end. We have no choice but to help the United Nations adapt to the new world and play its proper role as a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations in the attainment of common ends. This is all the more essential since the great challenges to our future can only be met in a global framework of solidarity. The only solution — whether in the struggle against terrorism, drug- trafficking and organized crime; in the protection of our environment and our collective health; or in the promotion of security 5 through disarmament or the reduction of poverty — is a concerted and united global effort. Together, we have already begun this effort, and my country urges the international community to continue it steadfastly. Senegal makes this appeal convinced that, with the intellectual and material resources available to humankind today, there is no challenge that cannot be met. All we need is the will. We can do it. We must do it. Let us do it together, as brothers and sisters belonging to one family.   ﻿Allow me to begin by expressing my warmest congratulations to the President upon his election. We are confident that his experience, know-how and broad understanding of international issues will be invaluable in carrying out the noble mission that has been entrusted to him and will provide the best possible assurance of the success of this session. His election to the presidency reflects the very special respect the international community has for his friendly country, Ukraine, because of its wise policy, based on moderation and a sense of proportion and also because of the efforts it is making to consolidate the principles of peace, justice and cooperation as the foundation of relations between States. I also wish to express our warmest thanks and gratitude to last year's President, His Excellency Mr. Razali Ismail, who throughout his term in office distinguished himself by the dedication and loyalty with which he carried out his functions, playing a remarkable role in the reform of the United Nations and its restructuring and adaptation to the changes occurring in the world, and in preparing it to enter the twenty-first century with greater efficiency. Reform of the United Nations and its restructuring are undoubtedly in the forefront of the issues on this session's agenda, particularly since Secretary-General Kofi Annan has kept the promise he made when he took office and has submitted a report on reform of the Organization that contains numerous measures and recommendations that are important for the Organization's future. It is with pleasure that I pay tribute to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for all the initiatives he has taken and the bold proposals he has made since taking office a short while ago with a view to reforming the Secretariat and rationalizing its functioning. Tunisia, which took an active part in the discussions held in the various working groups entrusted with the reform process, wishes to underscore the prime importance of the issues raised in the Secretary-General's report, both those that fall within his competence regarding coordination between the different Departments of the Secretariat and between the United Nations and its specialized agencies and those reforms that concern the United Nations activities and fall within the competence of the General Assembly, in connection with which the Assembly will adopt relevant resolutions. There is no doubt that the international community is motivated by a sincere will to give a powerful impetus to the reform process to enable the United Nations to accomplish the tasks provided for in the Charter, whether with regard to achieving security and peace in the world or to establishing conditions for sustainable development, two closely related, complementary goals. In our view, the most important priority of the reform process is to focus on strengthening the United Nations role in achieving development and in reducing and eradicating poverty, mobilizing the means required so that developing countries can achieve economic and social development and meet the crucial challenges imposed upon them by globalization and by the market economy. Notwithstanding the well-being and prosperity that technological progress and globalization of the economy have brought to certain countries, while others have been excluded, the world's economy continues to suffer from imbalances that hinder growth in developing countries and endanger international stability. We consider it essential to give priority to these situations in United Nations programmes and activities in order to narrow the chasm that exists between States, give new impetus to international cooperation in the field of economic and social development and strengthen the United Nations capacity for effective and efficient action in this regard. Tunisia stresses the need to strengthen the role of the United Nations in the field of development in order to 19 consolidate the General Assembly's prerogatives with regard to preparing cooperation policies and monitoring their execution. The United Nations continues to be the ideal forum for this within the framework of the international community. That also requires that Member States honour their financial commitments to the United Nations in order to provide the necessary means required for successful reform, the realization of the United Nations various programmes and rational, judicious use of resources. In this connection Tunisia once again reaffirms its support for the restructuring of the Security Council to ensure a fairer representation of Member States and to guarantee the interests of developing countries within the framework of equality for all Member States, consecrating the spirit of the Charter and giving concrete expression to its principles. In this regard, my country would recall the legitimate claim of the African States, as expressed at the Organization of African Unity (OAU) Summit Meeting held at Tunis in June 1994 and reaffirmed at the recent OAU Summit at Harare, calling for the allocation of two permanent seats on the Security Council to be occupied by African States on a rotating basis. It is also important to continue to improve the working methods of the Security Council and to implement fully the procedures stipulated in the Council's rules of procedure to ensure the effective participation of United Nations Member States and their collective responsibility for maintaining international peace and security. The maintenance of international peace and security and the elimination of the hotbeds of tensions, conflicts and wars that still rage in many regions of the world are today, in addition to the problems of development, at the forefront of the international community's concerns, and they continue to require determined and consistent action by the United Nations. In this context, Tunisia emphasizes the importance of the role the United Nations must play with regard to the situation in the Middle East in the light of the dangerous developments that are taking place there. The United Nations has followed the Palestinian problem since the very beginning and has had a special responsibility to the Palestinian people from the adoption of the resolution on the partition of Palestine until the formulation of the basic principles of a pacific settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict. Tunisia has stood by the Palestinian people in their struggle to recover their legitimate rights and for 12 years was home to the Palestine Liberation Organization. It has followed, from a position of neutrality, the Middle East peace process and played, at the behest of its of President, a historic role in triggering that process. It has supported the process at every stage, beginning with the initial contacts between the conflicting parties, at the Madrid Conference, and in the Oslo, Washington and Cairo agreements. Tunisia was also a party to the multilateral negotiations. As such, Tunisia wishes here to express its profound concern and indignation at the obstruction of this process and at the freezing of the agreements that led up to it, as well as at the renewed dangers of conflict, violence and instability in the region. We denounce the Israeli Government's policy of fait accompli, its failure to respect the international agreements that have been signed and the unilateral measures it has taken in building colonies inside and outside Al Quds, destroying houses, confiscating identity cards, inflicting collective reprisals against the Palestinian people, seizing their financial assets, continuing to besiege them and taking all sorts of other arbitrary measures. We call emphatically for a return to the basic references that have been part of the peace process since its inception, particularly the principle of land for peace, and for respect of international legality on the basis of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978) and the relevant General Assembly resolutions. Furthermore, we call for the implementation of all the provisions of the agreement pertaining to the transition stage, including the second redeployment, the opening of a secure road between the West Bank and Gaza, the opening of the airport and the port, the release of prisoners and the beginning of the final status negotiations, in accordance with the agreed-upon schedule. The international community, particularly in the meetings of the Security Council and the three consecutive meetings of the tenth emergency special session of the General Assembly, has already condemned the current Israeli Government's policy of building settlements in Al Quds and in the occupied Palestinian territories. This policy has greatly discouraged the Palestinian community and international opinion in general, particularly since it has given rise to acts of violence for which Israel bears sole responsibility, given the profound despair that has replaced the relief that had been felt throughout the entire region. Tunisia exhorts the international community, and especially the two sponsors of peace, to act expeditiously and firmly to save the peace and avert the dangers that 20 threaten the region so that the Palestinian people is able to recover its legitimate rights to the creation of an independent State on its own soil with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital, and to ensure the restoration to Syria and Lebanon of the territories which Israel has occupied. We note with satisfaction the United States' resumption of efforts to save the peace process, notably the meeting held yesterday in New York between the parties concerned. We also welcome the efforts being made to restore confidence among the parties concerned with a view to helping them overcome the current crisis and achieve an equitable settlement of the Palestinian problem and the Arab-Israeli conflict as a whole. We feel that actions undertaken to date to mitigate the risks of tension and conflict in the region remain far below what we had hoped. Tunisia regrets the deterioration of the current financial situation of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA), which hinders its mission to alleviate the suffering of the Palestinian people. While reaffirming the international community's responsibility for the question of Palestinian refugees, we urge it to continue to provide assistance to UNRWA in order to allow it to carry out its mandate fully and resume its work. We urge all donors countries to maintain and honour their financial commitment and to increase their contribution to the Agency budget, taking into account the natural growth in the number of Palestinian refugees, in order to allow the Agency to overcome its severe financial crisis. Tunisia's awareness of the importance in today's world of economic and geographic groupings to meeting the challenges of globalization and the changes we are currently witnessing encourages us to be firm and consistent in pursuing our efforts to complete the construction of the Arab Maghreb Union. The Union represents a particular claim made by the peoples of our region and one of the goals that we, together with the leaders of our brother Maghreb countries, are striving to attain. This strategic option for the future of the peoples of the region and their cooperation with their immediate environment is strengthened by the efforts our country is making, under the impetus of President Ben Ali, to construct a Euro-Mediterranean area that will serve as a framework for cooperation among the Mediterranean riparian countries, for solidarity among their peoples and for cultural and social dialogue in the context of the noble values and principles in which we all believe. Our country has already assumed a distinctive role in ensuring the success of the various meetings and conferences held to this end, from the preparatory meeting of the region's Ministers for Foreign Affairs held in Tabarka, Tunisia, to the Barcelona conference and the meetings that followed. Our country gave concrete expression to this option in 1995 by signing an association agreement with the European Union. We believe that it has become imperative to respond favourably to the willingness of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya to settle the Lockerbie question in a fair and honourable manner in the framework of proposals made by the League of Arab States, the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the Non-Aligned Movement. These proposals can help to achieve a peaceful solution based on international legality and thereby hasten the end of the suffering being endured by the brother Libyan people under the embargo. They would also strengthen stability in that part of the Mediterranean. We also take this opportunity to call for an end to the suffering that has been inflicted upon the Iraqi people for a number of years now. We hope that relations among the States of the Gulf region will be based on respect for the sovereignty of all the States of the region, their territorial integrity and the inviolability of their borders, in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the Security Council. In this context, Tunisia once again reaffirms its solidarity with the United Arab Emirates in the peaceful efforts they are making to recover the islands of Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa. The success of the United Nations in achieving international peace and security does not rest only on peacekeeping operations, preventive diplomacy and the peaceful settlement of conflict. It also requires progress and accomplishments in the field of disarmament. Despite the end of the cold war and the achievement of a number of positive results, particularly in limiting the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, these weapons — particularly nuclear weapons — continue seriously to threaten all mankind. Tunisia, which has ratified all the international conventions on the subject, reiterates its appeals for the establishment of a denuclearized zone, free of all weapons of mass destruction, in the Middle East. This appeal has been supported by the accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons of all the countries of the region with the exception of Israel, which has neither ratified the Treaty nor placed its nuclear facilities 21 under the system of international controls, thereby endangering the security and integrity of the entire region. There are many regions of the world that continue to be torn by war and conflict and whose populations are confronted with tragic situations as a result of instability, insecurity, famine and destitution. We nonetheless note with satisfaction that, despite the persistence of hotbeds of tension and instability in some of these regions, the African continent is beginning truly to awaken to the possibility of restored security and renewed economic growth in a number of its regions and countries. Tunisia welcomes the development of the situation in Africa and the sincere determination of member countries of the Organization of African Unity to pursue the reforms that have been undertaken to restructure economies and consolidate democracy. At the same time, my country reiterates the appeal made by President Ben Ali many times to the international community for increased attention to be paid to the continent's problems in order to eradicate once and for all the hotbeds of tension that remain in Africa, so that security and stability may be instituted throughout the continent, enabling all its peoples to devote themselves to work and to economic development. In this context, the role to be played by the United Nations in assisting the countries concerned to overcome these difficulties and challenges assumes primary importance. It is a role that should be seen in the context of the prime responsibility that our international Organization assumes in preserving peace and security and in confirming the fact that the United Nations is irreplaceable in these endeavours. However, this in no way minimizes the importance that should be given to the action of regional organizations, whose role has grown in recent years, making their influence visible and palpable. Our country emphasizes the importance of the role devoted to the Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution, which was set up by the Organization of African Unity for all issues related to security and stability on the African continent. This clearly does not prevent us from supporting any international initiative that is consistent with this essential principle and that reinforces African efforts to preserve peace and security on our continent. We applaud the efforts of the United Nations Secretariat to stimulate cooperation and to promote consultation with the Organization of African Unity to strengthen its capacity for preventing conflicts and maintaining peace. Numerous African States, including Tunisia, have declared their willingness to participate in the standby arrangements for peacekeeping, thereby demonstrating their determination to contribute to United Nations efforts to improve the methods of organizing United Nations peacekeeping operations. There is no doubt that the promotion of international cooperation, particularly in the field of training and logistics, can ensure the success of the standby forces, thereby making it the basic formula for the establishment of United Nations peacekeeping forces. In this regard, we reaffirm Tunisia's unswerving desire to make a real contribution to the efforts of the United Nations to preserve international peace and security. Our country has contributed both military and civilian contingents to many United Nations peacekeeping operations — from the Congo in the early 1960s to other similar operations in a number of African countries; in Cambodia; in Bosnia and Herzegovina; in Croatia; and recently in Haiti — thus giving concrete evidence of its faith in international action and cooperation carried out by the Organization. Tunisia will continue to support and assist United Nations peacekeeping operations whenever necessary. In order to meet the challenges generated by globalization and openness in the world economy, Tunisia has introduced substantial and coherent reforms in the political, economic and social fields to ensure society's equilibrium and integrity and the solidarity of its members, thereby eliminating the negative factors that could hinder this: exclusion, neglect of the human aspect in development, and the creation of chasms between social categories resulting from disparate levels of development within a given society. We are convinced that global development can be achieved only when the vulnerable sectors of society have been assured the conditions for integration with economic dynamics. This requires uprooting the causes of poverty, destitution and marginalization, which is consistent with the commitment to promote solidarity and mutual assistance between the members of society on the national level, and efforts being made in that direction on the international level. The fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations afforded the leaders of Member countries an opportunity to confirm their determination to revitalize the role of the United Nations and to confer upon its actions greater dynamism at a time when problems of security, 22 development and environment multiply, requiring joint efforts and shared determination to face them with a view to achieving progress, prosperity and well-being for all. The success of the United Nations remains contingent upon action in accordance with the goals and principles enshrined in its Charter. It is also conditioned by the commitment of all countries, large and small, to implement decisions which uphold the values of liberty, dignity and justice. In so doing we will respond to the aspirations of our peoples who are the essential guarantors of the United Nations vitality and of its capacity for renewal, durability and ability to meet the challenges which humanity will confront during the next century.  ﻿On behalf of the delegation of Niger, I should like Sir, to express my warm congratulations on your unanimous election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session. We regard your election as a just tribute to your country, the Republic of Ukraine, whose commitment to the ideals of our Organization is well known. I would also like to congratulate the other members of the Bureau, who I am convinced will help you in the accomplishment of your delicate mission. In addition, I wish to express to your predecessor, Mr. Razali Ismail, our deep appreciation for the remarkable work he did during his presidency. To Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General of our Organization, may I express my Government's full support and brotherly encouragement for the commendable action he is carrying out in order to promote greater cooperation between our peoples and nations in order to build a world of peace and progress. Once again, Niger is pleased to take part in a session of the General Assembly, which is an ideal framework for the Member States of our Organization to debate, in a spirit of partnership, complex matters affecting the destiny of humanity. We must all agree that over its 52 years of existence the United Nations has gained a more than honourable record in achieving its purposes, especially in the areas of peacekeeping, decolonization, and the promotion of, and respect for, human rights, as well as in the search for global solutions to the major problems of our times — development, the environment, population and the protection of women and children, to mention just a few. The immense work accomplished so far is above all the result of our capacity to work together in our common interest and in the interest of future generations. Niger therefore believes that international cooperation, which is the basis of these major achievements, must be strengthened, because it is the source of stability and progress. The maintenance of international peace and security, the primary purpose of our Organization, deserves everyone's special attention at a time when the international community, with the cold war finally ended, is getting down to establishing a new world order that strictly respects the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter. Niger welcomes the report presented by the Secretary- General last July on the reform of our Organization. We support this process and hope that it will provide synergy, giving the means and flexibility indispensable for the Organization if it is to meet the numerous challenges it faces at the dawn of the third millennium. My delegation believes too that the Security Council must be reformed in order to make it more effective, given its responsibilities in the sphere of collective security. In particular, such reform must address the expansion of the Council on the basis of the principles of equitable geographical distribution and of the sovereign equality of States. In the same vein, we consider that better handling of the emergencies that constantly arise in so many places must include an improvement in the Organization's capacity to deploy peacekeeping forces in a timely fashion wherever necessary. Let me express Niger's deep concern at the conflicts and tensions in Africa and in the Middle East. Turning first to Africa, we note with distress that internal confrontations and disruptions are the main cause of the political instability in some countries and of the massive movements of refugees that are at the root of a tragic humanitarian crisis. Niger has a deep commitment to peace, and must once again urge the warring parties in the States concerned to renounce violence and engage in productive dialogue to find solutions to their disputes, thus restoring stability to their respective countries. I take this opportunity to pay a well-deserved tribute to the people of Liberia, who after seven years of cruel war accepted the peace plan proposed by the States members of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). The Liberian people's will for peace is clearly reflected in their respect for the ceasefire and, above all, in the 19 July national elections, which were conducted in an atmosphere of calm and openness. I am pleased to pay tribute to the valuable role played by our great brother country, Nigeria, in the process of restoring peace to Liberia. In Congo (Brazzaville), we hail the tireless efforts of neighbouring African countries, of the Organization of African Unity and of the United Nations to calm the situation. More than ever, that crisis highlights the urgent need to create an African peacekeeping force. I can today assure the Assembly that my country is fully prepared to contribute to the establishment of such a force, as it did in the cases of Rwanda, Burundi and Liberia. Turning to the situation in Western Sahara, my country welcomes the recent agreement by the two parties; we hope that the referendum will take place in conditions of peace and calm. To promote peace and security in the Middle East, the international community must pay sustained attention to the tension in the occupied Palestinian territories, which has been steadily rising since the Israeli Government decision to build a new settlement in occupied East Jerusalem. That Israeli decision endangers the peace process that began in Madrid on the basis of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978) and on the basis of the principle of land for peace. In the face of that Israeli Government position, the international community has no choice but to redouble its efforts to secure dialogue and, above all, justice — which form the foundation of a peaceful future in the Middle East, along with the necessary exercise by the Palestinian people of its inalienable rights, including the right to the establishment of an independent State, and scrupulous respect for agreements reached between the Israeli Government and the Palestine Liberation Organization on the basis of the relevant Security Council and General Assembly resolutions. Since its creation, the United Nations has always given high priority to disarmament, and in particular to the elimination of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. There has been good progress on this issue with the conclusion of a number of international instruments, the most notable of which, in our view, are the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, the Chemical Weapons Convention and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. Niger is deeply convinced that disarmament is an essential element in the maintenance of international peace and security and has acceded to those important agreements, which are aimed at preventing the development of nuclear weapons and of other weapons of mass destruction. My country is keenly aware also of other, no less important, issues relating to illegal trafficking in small arms and to a complete ban on the anti-personnel mines that constitute a harsh scourge that continues to inflict unspeakable human suffering. 2 Civil wars and political upheaval in Africa have fostered the proliferation of illicit weapons. To collect and monitor weapons illicitly held by individuals, Niger has joined the United Nations and several neighbouring countries to take wide-ranging action against this scourge. On the domestic level, we created in 1994 a national commission for the collection and monitoring of illicit weapons. My country is genuinely pleased also at the existence of regional disarmament initiatives, some of which have led to the conclusion of arrangements such as the Treaty on the Denuclearization of Africa. In our view, it is essential to benefit from the climate of confidence and cooperation now prevailing on the international scene to give new impetus to multilateral negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament. That is the only way to make progress towards building a safer world, which is a legitimate aspiration of all our peoples. The tragic effects of poverty in a large number of countries merely exacerbate instability in the world. Despite the remarkable progress made in recent years in the economic and social fields, following the implementation of structural economic reforms, Africa remains in many respects a region where poverty has increased spectacularly. On this continent are found the majority of countries with the lowest indices with respect to human development. For this reason, as a Sahelian country, we feel that the reform process proposed by the Secretary-General must strengthen the role of the United Nations and its functions in development matters, making priorities of reducing poverty and strengthening the participation of more countries in an expanding world economy. The remarkable contribution made by the development institutions, such as the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), in our country must be highlighted. We encourage the Secretary-General to ensure that in the reform process there will be respect for the autonomy of these bodies in order to preserve their effectiveness. We welcomed the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, adopted in 1991, which has been supplemented by the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative on Africa launched by the Secretary-General in March 1996. Their purpose was to help Africa in its recovery efforts. Today it is more urgent than ever that the industrialized countries grant broad support to these programmes, and establish funds for diversification to allow African countries to obtain a better return for their commodities and thus assure vital resources for their populations. This support in particular must take the form of resources to be invested in priority sectors, such as basic education, health and security of food and water supplies, sectors capable of laying down solid bases for sustainable development in Africa. Africa certainly needs assistance. But my country remains convinced that the resources the continent needs for its development efforts can be generated by increasing trade with the developed countries. African countries are waiting for the industrialized countries to implement the measures adopted as part of the Final Act of the Uruguay Round negotiations, supplemented by specific preference provisions in the Marrakesh Agreements, to mitigate the negative effects the reforms envisaged in the negotiations could have on countries which are net importers of food products. Similarly, the external debt of African countries is a problem requiring viable and fair solutions, going beyond the measures taken in the Paris Club framework. The new initiative taken recently by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund to significantly reduce the multilateral debt of the poorest countries, should extend to all those countries, without any eligibility conditions or deadlines. Nonetheless, the cancellation of all the debt is the most appropriate solution in order to ensure accelerated development by the least developed countries. Such actions, in my delegation's view, will make it possible to reduce poverty noticeably. These recommendations are set out in the Agenda for Development, adopted during the last Assembly session. It is up to the international community to effectively implement this programme to bring about development and growth in our countries. Because of its lack of resources, successive droughts and high population growth, Niger is part of the group of African countries where poverty is omnipresent. In the light of its high level of poverty, His Excellency Mr. Ibrahim Maïnassara Baré, President of the Republic of Niger, and the Government decided that for society to progress we needed stable and democratic institutions guaranteeing respect for and the promotion of human 3 rights. It was also decided to make all our development actions part of our battle against poverty. In liaison with its development partners, the Government of Niger has therefore agreed on a plan to combat poverty, with policies to stimulate sustainable growth, improve rural income, give better access to social services and slow population growth, in particular. We would like to take this opportunity to invite bilateral and multilateral donors to play an active part in implementing this plan to combat poverty in Niger. Our Government is firmly committed to ensuring good management of our economy, deepening the democratization process and bringing about the participation at all levels of those who would benefit from the execution of this plan, which is based on principles of good government. That commitment undoubtedly guarantees its success. Moreover, I am particularly pleased to inform the Assembly, and thus to reassure the my country's backers and partners that peace in Niger has become an unquestioned reality. Indeed, since the signing of the peace agreement of 24 April 1995 in Niamey between the Government of the Republic of Niger and the Organization of the Armed Resistance, the peace process has made remarkable progress. For example, action has been taken with respect to decentralization, the return of refugees, the celebration each year of a day of harmony and the implementation of an emergency programme for the rehabilitation of our agricultural region. I solemnly appeal to the international community to contribute to the completion of the peace progress already begun. Before concluding, I would like to reaffirm the complete commitment of a Sahelian country such as Niger to protecting the environment, whose continuous degradation is a source of real concern. Niger welcomed the recent holding in New York of the nineteenth special session of the General Assembly, devoted to a review of the implementation of Agenda 21 and the establishment of new policies for the future. The special session showed us that while notable progress has been made with respect to climate change, biodiversity, combating desertification and the use of renewable sources of energy, that is not the case with regard to no less important questions, such as access to drinking water, which is a real problem for humankind, the unbridled exploitation of the oceans and deforestation. Thus, we have to recognize that, at the conclusion of its proceedings, the special session did not live up to the hopes placed in it. In particular, it failed to create new levels of international cooperation or to establish a basis for legally binding codes of conduct on improved environmental protection. In that context, my delegation confines itself here to recalling Principle 7 of the Rio Declaration, which emphasizes the concept of common but differentiated responsibilities for the entire international community with respect to environmental matters. The complementarity between economic, social and environmental questions obliges all our countries to acknowledge the need for solidarity and joint action to reach the goals laid down in Agenda 21. We owe this solidarity to future generations.  ﻿It is an honour for me to take part in this General Assembly as the representative of the people and Government of Peru, under the leadership of President Alberto Fujimori. I extend my congratulations to you, Mr. President, on your election to preside over this session and assure you of the fullest support by the delegation of Peru. We likewise congratulate Ambassador Razali Ismail, President of the previous session. Peru reaffirms its unfailing dedication to the purposes, principles and norms enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, without whose faithful application it is not possible to achieve peace and harmonious coexistence among States. We must all ensure respect for international law, especially scrupulous and good-faith compliance with treaties, and must contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security and participate in the promotion of economic and social development. Accordingly, effective observance of the Charter and respect for its principles are today more necessary than ever in order to endow multilateralism with renewed credibility and vigour. We live in a day of marked change in the organization of power and of globalizing trends in the international system which require, in keeping with the Charter, a scrupulous egalitarianism in relations between States and, accordingly, multilateral policies in keeping with the times as an appropriate means of conferring priority on the common goals of mankind in our era. Institutional reform of the United Nations system is imperative to make it more efficient, adapt it to the present needs of the international community and consolidate institutions that will be truly representative of the interests we all share. For four years now the General Assembly has been at work on the reform of the Security Council. National positions have already been made known and reiterated. We should now decide whether we shall embark on the negotiations proper or whether that should be deferred until better political conditions prevail, for the unproductive prolongation of this debate could affect the 8 prestige and authority of the Organization at a juncture when it is essential instead to strengthen it as the supreme world forum for dialogue, understanding and cooperation. We are aware of the difficulty of this process. To those who have a duty to exercise their power with self- restraint we address an invitation to be flexible. We also believe that pressures or haste would be ill advised, since they could hinder the achievement of a legitimate and vital goal. Peru believes it is necessary to make the Security Council representative, to enhance its legitimacy, to secure equitable geographical representation through its expansion, to give it greater transparency, and to take the first steps towards the abolition of the veto through strict limits on its use. Accordingly, Peru supports the increase of both categories of members. All of the foregoing should be achieved through a legitimate agreement that does not discriminate against developing countries. To keep pace with the momentum generated by global problems, a new institutional structure is needed, such as that proposed by the Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, in his “A Programme for Reform.” In order better to serve international peace and stability and the sustained growth of the world economy, renewed efforts are needed that will be in keeping with the diversity of Member States. We support the strengthening of the Secretariat, the emphasis on the promotion of development and the recommendation for rationalizing and optimizing the use of its financial resources, as well as the transfer of the resources thus released to development cooperation activities. The Human Development Report for 1977 reveals that the problem of internally displaced persons has taken on dramatic dimensions; the numbers increased fivefold during the decade 1984-1994. At the same time, we note in the report submitted by the representative of the Secretary- General to the Commission on Human Rights concerning institutional lacunae in this area of the United Nations that there is no institution with exclusive responsibility for such displaced persons. We propose that at this session of the General Assembly, which the Secretary General has called the reform Assembly, the question of institutional responsibility for the internally displaced be addressed. Peru favours the idea of unifying the country offices and operations of the agencies to facilitate the implementation of comprehensive programmes in which the United Nations system will be able to put its recognized capacities to full use. No reform can be successful without the necessary financial resources. The financial situation of the Organization is a subject of widespread concern. Peru is of the view that contributions to the regular budget are a legal obligation that should be fully and promptly discharged. The principle of capacity to pay should remain the fundamental criterion in the apportionment of assessments. Accordingly, if States in arrears do not take concrete measures to clear their indebtedness, certainly without setting conditions, it will not be possible in a timely manner to earmark resources for activities essential to the majority of our countries. Such is the case, for example, with the campaign against poverty. There are other key questions on our increasingly abundant international agenda. We must place increasing emphasis on economic and social issues, cooperation for development, environmental protection, humanitarian assistance, the advancement and defence of human rights and, of course, the fight against illegal drug trafficking, terrorism and corruption. Peru approaches the development of the international system on the basis of four criteria that guide its foreign policy: the pre-eminence of representative democracy and the rule of law; the promotion of the fundamental rights of the human person; consolidation of the market economy and development of regional economic integration agreements; and the search for peace and the advancement of cooperation for development. In the era of globalization, Peru views international peace and security as multidimensional tasks. If States are to assume them as real commitments and priorities, they must be associated with a higher purpose, namely, with improving the intolerable lot of some 60 per cent of the world's population. Problems such as poverty, acute poverty, illiteracy, malnutrition, infant mortality, discrimination and marginalization in general constitute a picture of potential social violence that threatens the universal ideal of a peaceful and orderly life. The plight of poverty and the challenge of promoting human development have radically altered the direction and pace of international relations. 9 The international system is tending towards a gradual demilitarization. With the end of the cold war and the reduced risk of a global military confrontation, conditions have been created to give priority, on the basis of dialogue and cooperation, to the long-delayed task of advancing economic and social development. General and complete disarmament continues to be a key element in security and an abiding goal of the international community. Peru attaches special importance to non-proliferation in all its aspects, primarily nuclear non- proliferation and nuclear disarmament. My country participated actively in the arduous negotiations that culminated in the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and signed it on the day it was opened for signature. We are gratified at the outcome of the Oslo Diplomatic Conference, in the context of the Ottawa process to prohibit the production, transfer and indiscriminate use of anti-personnel landmines, in which Peru has participated as a full member from the outset. We are preparing to sign the global agreement in December. The Rio Group has undertaken to make our region the first in the world to be free of these odious devices, which day after day continue to take their toll of thousands of innocent victims. Peru is a peace-loving country that works for peace and repudiates conflict. We want to strengthen political and economic cooperation with all countries and groups of countries in various regions on the basis of common interests and mutual benefit. We emphasize especially the forging of closer ties of friendship and cooperation with neighbouring countries and fostering mutual trust through specific processes, mechanisms and measures that we are vigorously pursuing. Without economic growth, there can be no creation of wealth or jobs, and without these there can be no development or prosperity. That is the great challenge of our time. We must act to create conditions of market transparency and social convergence in order to sustain the growth of the world economy, the opening and liberalization of trade, services and capital flows and the transfer of technology. Developed and developing countries must reach an understanding in order to avoid a return to that not-so-distant past when narrow forms of protectionism and conditionalities failed to overcome inequality and, indeed, aggravated it. Globalization must not lead to greater poverty and discrimination, for they are one of the principal obstacles to stability, and, on the eve of the twenty-first century, they also pose a moral challenge. We must adopt measures to incorporate disadvantaged societies into policies and processes that promote economic growth and social development. In Peru, the campaign for the gradual reduction of poverty until its eradication has taken a comprehensive approach. Its focal points are openness, modernization and liberalization of the economy, reform of the State and a legal framework that guarantees property and promotes investment. In addition, we are pursuing consistent sectoral policies, financed by 40 per cent of our national budget going to items in the social sphere, such as health, housing, education, population and justice. The results already achieved in economic and social growth are well known, and Peru is considered a stable, secure country with a bright future. Around the year 2000, the Peruvian Government hopes significantly to reduce acute poverty and poverty in general. The United Nations has primary responsibility for addressing three negatives trends of universal scope: illicit drug trafficking, terrorism and corruption. We are combating vigorously these criminal phenomena because they erode fundamental values and threaten the stability of democracies. The upcoming special session of the General Assembly on the question of drugs — a session that we fully support — calls for unity of purpose. The international community will have an excellent opportunity to tackle this problem in all of its dimensions. Peru has been achieving concrete results in all facets of this comprehensive campaign, not only in interdiction but also in crop eradication and alternative development. We hope to see a substantial increase in international cooperation that would help step up our anti-drug policy and would complement, even if only partially, the tremendous national efforts that we have been making. We hope that this enhanced cooperation will materialize, in view of the increased awareness and greater political will that have emerged worldwide regarding a problem for which all of us, without exception, share responsibility. The Eighth International Anti-Corruption Conference, which took place three weeks ago in the capital of Peru, brought together more than 600 representatives from 93 countries. I wish to highlight the set of recommendations that emerged for combating public and private corruption. These are contained in the Lima Declaration, the first global document of its kind. It establishes an evaluation and follow-up mechanism that 10 will bring these recommendations to the attention of Governments and international institutions. The goal henceforth in this endeavour, which concerns Governments and citizens equally, will be to identify specific problem areas, taking into account public opinion and with the effective participation of civil society. The United Nations, as the global framework for combating corruption in all its manifestations, must participate in these efforts, just as the inter-American system has been doing within its own geographical area. The phenomenon of terrorism has, at the cost of countless innocent human lives and huge material losses, today placed itself on the agenda of contemporary international relations. We have already unequivocally and at all levels condemned terrorist acts and the criminal groups that perpetrate them, and we have also agreed that terrorist acts represent human rights violations. It is now time to undertake a process of consultation that will enable the international community to avail itself of universal legal instruments with which to combat effectively terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, as we are striving to do on our continent. Five years after the adoption of the plan of action of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held at Rio de Janeiro in 1992, the lack of progress on Agenda 21 is discouraging. There has been an erosion of the political commitment entered into, especially with respect to the allocation of new and additional resources, as well as scant willingness to transfer technology to the developing countries. We reaffirm that only a comprehensive approach can lead to the achievement of sustainable development, because this requires a consolidation of the process of the opening and liberalization of trade, as well as commercial and environmental policies that are mutually supportive. An adequate transfer of financial resources and technologies to support national policies is also required. In this task, no State should shirk its individual responsibility. One of the challenges facing the international community is to ensure the effective promotion and full observance of all human rights and fundamental freedoms. The advancement and protection of human rights are central concerns of the Peruvian Government. The concept of human development, which underlies the entire economic and social policy of our State, focuses on a revalorization of life and of the human being. The cooperation of the United Nations is essential, through a realistic approach that takes due account of regional and national characteristics and that is geared primarily to achieving a culture of human rights. Many countries, including Peru, are currently facing a cyclical, worldwide natural phenomenon known as El Niño, whose severe economic, environmental and social consequences are drastically changing the marine environment, which is a source of food and employment for broad sectors of humankind. The damage that these large-scale oceanic and atmospheric changes did in the past prompted my country some decades ago to promote the study of this phenomenon. Thus in 1974 a regional study of El Niño was carried out in the framework of the Permanent South Pacific Commission, a subregional organ of the South-East Pacific Action Plan, which has continued to address this problem with the valuable support of organizations such as the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission and the World Meteorological Organization. The knowledge acquired by Peru and other countries, as well as by international, regional, and world bodies, needs to be integrated and systematized. Accordingly, Peru proposes the establishment of a global programme of integrated cooperation on the El Niño phenomenon, which would enable our countries to mitigate its effects and the ensuing material damage. In order to lay the foundations of this program and set it in motion, we should consider holding an international meeting with the participation of the relevant agencies of the system, regional organs and the respective national programmes of the countries concerned. In this context, we propose that, as part of the reform of the United Nations system, its operational capacity in the area of the monitoring and the mobilization of assistance for natural disasters be maintained and strengthened. The development policy now being implemented in Peru is anchored in the universal concepts, values and principles propounded by the United Nations: democracy, economic freedom, respect for the fundamental rights of the human person, environmental conservation, the advancement of women and protection of the rights of indigenous populations. Responding to the dictates of its history and geography, Peruvian society has since ancient times embodied the ideal of unity within diversity. We Peruvians are laying the foundations of our own future. I shall not dwell on the policies that we have been pursuing for the last seven years, their impressive results or the 11 vicissitudes in this process that have tested our resolve and perseverance. But I feel that it is appropriate to repeat the principal characteristic of our development model, which is a harmonious and rational complementary relationship between economic and social policies, which for the first time in many years is enabling us to carry out a realistic strategy for sustainable human development. Accordingly, the modern and efficient functioning of the United Nations system of cooperation is now, more than ever, of strategic value to Peru. I should like in particular to express thanks for the cooperation that the United Nations system has been providing to the Peruvian people, which is stimulating and complementing our national effort. The United Nations is the best instrument available at a global level to consolidate international peace and security, respect for the sovereignty and independence of States and international law, and for the promotion of economic and social development. Accordingly, its operations, approaches and strategies should provide effective answers to the challenges of the contemporary world and the needs of our peoples, who continue to place their hopes in our Organization. Peru will always remain committed to that endeavour. ﻿Allow me to begin by congratulating you, Sir, on your election to your honourable post. You may count on our full support and dedication to your goals. You, Sir, have inherited the legacy of the outgoing President, Ambassador Razali Ismail, which we can build on: friendly atmosphere, lively debates, productive spirit, strong desire for change and reform, and, last but not least, brilliant management of the Assembly’s work. My Government congratulates Ambassador Razali on his outstanding performance. I come from a country that is in the midst of comprehensive reforms. Top-to-bottom institutional changes have reshaped our society from its very roots, establishing a commonly accepted democratic way of life. Radical changes involved in introducing a market economy have borne fruit. Today, our democracy and market economy are inextricably linked with the new security and economic framework of a united Europe. Our reform experience demonstrates that the courage to grasp the moment — to respond rapidly if and when the changing situation requires — a key for success. We have this key in our hands, and we need the determination to use it. With the end of the cold war, the fall of the bipolar system and the failure of power politics have given us a new chance to look deeper into the core of the United Nations and to reshape it in line with the needs and expectations of its Member States and for the benefit of all. The picture of the road ahead is visible. We want this session of the General Assembly to be dominated by the programme of reforms. Lithuania’s Government supports the Secretary-General’s reform initiative, which is expected to spur most fundamental changes. We are confident that the Secretary-General will successfully implement that part of his programme which falls within his own responsibility. It is unlikely that everyone will be happy about every part of the proposed reforms. We, the Member States, have to see the Secretary-General’s proposals in their entirety, and, rising above narrow national interests, find a compromise on every step that brings us closer to a more focused, more efficient, more transparent and more democratic United Nations. Lithuania is ready to play an active part in achieving agreement on a United Nations structure that will reflect the nature of the United Nations mandate and its core functions: maintenance of peace and security, sustainable development and 8 promotion of human rights, humanitarian assistance, and social and economic progress. They should be placed within a strict time-frame. Otherwise, lack of dynamics in the negotiation process will cause a loss of direction. What is of special concern to us is that the financial difficulties of the Organization are affecting its performance and endanger the progress of reforms. Lithuania will fulfil its financial obligations to the United Nations and urges other States to do so. At the same time, United Nations financing must reflect a State’s capacity to pay. The scheme of limits has to be removed from the new scale of assessments that is to be negotiated this autumn. Lithuania continues to support the package of comprehensive proposals put forward by the European Union designed to put the Organization on a sound and predictable financial footing. Although the reform of the Security Council started as a separate process, it is now part of the entire package of United Nations reform. It was inspired by the general acknowledgement that the time had come for the Council to reflect new realities in world politics. Today we have more nations able and willing to serve permanently on the Security Council than in the days of its inception. Two such States are Germany and Japan. Asia, Africa and Latin America, too, legitimately aspire to have new permanent seats. And there are more States whose contributions to the goals of the United Nations point to the need for greater appreciation and better accommodation of their interests. We want a comprehensive reform of the Council whereby the number of non-permanent seats increases as well. The Group of Eastern European States, whose number has more than doubled over the past few years, deserves at least one additional seat. Our position on this is very firm. We also need a more transparent and democratic Security Council. But, most important, the reform should continue to progress. This year’s discussions have been productive, thanks to the efforts of the former President of the General Assembly, Ambassador Razali. I hope the process will retain its vigour. In the post-confrontation era, there are far too many weapons around the world. Fortunately, today there are more tools to control the spread of the most deadly weapons. Last year we adopted the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty — a major breakthrough in nuclear disarmament, which is feasible when pursued in consecutive steps. The next step should be to ban the spread of fissile material for nuclear warheads. The world’s attention has been captured by the negotiations in Oslo on the agreement to ban one of the most inhumane weapons: anti-personnel landmines. We support these efforts, which require profound rethinking of national defence strategies in many countries, including Lithuania. Confidence-building measures and security cooperation will help humanitarian concerns reign over military purposes. We have faith in regional and bilateral efforts to disarm. Europe has set out on the path of toughening the requirements for the stationing of conventional forces, through the adaptation of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe. We support this process and believe that it can be a model for other regions. Even though the total number of peacekeeping operations and their average size have been reduced in recent years, peacekeeping is still the key instrument available to the United Nations in discharging its primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. Together with Estonia and Latvia, and with Poland, Lithuania is developing joint peacekeeping units. Apart from its genuine objective of contributing to United Nations goals, this exercise is, in itself, a testimony to full understanding and cooperation among the neighbouring countries of our region. In recent years we have witnessed an increase in the role and functions of international civilian police in peacekeeping operations. The civilian police forces can play a major role, through assistance to local police forces, in rebuilding national police and judicial systems, in restoring civil order, in supporting the rule of law and in facilitating national reconciliation. The need for assistance from international civilian police is likely to increase. It can be met by properly functioning United Nations standby arrangements, which are designed to expand the rapid-deployment capacity of the Organization. Lithuania has decided to join the United Nations system of standby arrangements for peacekeeping operations. Later today, I shall submit to the Secretary-General a detailed description of our permanently available contribution, including well-trained police officers. Nations around the world are being challenged by certain phenomena which know no boundaries and which can be tackled only by joint action. Fighting international crime, drug trafficking and terrorism and ensuring environmental protection and humanitarian aid are among such challenges. 9 Lithuania wholeheartedly supports the Secretary- General’s reform effort to strengthen, through the United Nations entities in Vienna, the Organization’s capacity coherently and systematically to address threats to the stability and development of society created by transnational crime in all its manifestations. For its part, the Government of Lithuania is determined to enhance regional structures combating transnational organized crime as well as fully to implement bilateral, regional and multilateral agreements in this area. We also look forward to the special session of the General Assembly in 1998, which should enable the international community to develop new and improved strategies to address the problem of illicit narcotic drugs. Although the nineteenth special session of the General Assembly was not a milestone of success and ended with few commitments, we strongly believe that the political will demonstrated by the presence of so many Heads of State and Government will be translated into action. The next occasion to demonstrate the seriousness of our intentions to protect the environment and to agree on specific targets for reducing the emission of greenhouse gases, which were not realized at the special session, will be the third session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Kyoto, Japan, this December. The fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights will afford a great occasion to see what has been done and what can be done about the protection of and respect for basic international human rights. We welcome the appointment of Mrs. Mary Robinson as the High Commissioner for Human Rights and express our support for the structural reforms of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Centre for Human Rights. Internal restructuring of the United Nations human rights organs should go hand in hand with close cooperation in human rights issues between the United Nations and such regional arrangements as the Council of Europe, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and others. Illegal migration and trafficking in migrants threaten stability in Central and Eastern Europe. We believe that treaties on readmission between the States of the region could be a key instrument against these threats. Lithuania urges the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States that have not yet done so to accede to the 1951 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and its 1967 Protocol and to further strengthen national institutions responsible for the management of migration flows. We believe in a regional approach to regional issues. We praise the United Nations reliance on regional organizations. The Organization for Cooperation and Security in Europe is a good example of what a regional institution with a limited budget can do rather than placing the burden on the United Nations. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) is another good example. The record of the two organizations in the former Yugoslavia is much better than what could have been achieved had the United Nations alone dealt with the war. Along with other measures towards a more consolidated peace, good-neighbourly relations have become vital for regional security and stability. We have done our utmost to establish and maintain friendly relations with our neighbours, while simultaneously taking practical steps towards integration into the European Union and NATO. The accession of Lithuania to European and transatlantic institutions will have a significant impact on lasting security and stability. Yesterday the Russian Foreign Minister, Mr. Primakov, proposed a different security model of our region. However, creating a substitute for transatlantic integration is not in line with our vision. The international Vilnius conference entitled, “Coexistence of Nations and Good Neighbourhood Relations — A Guarantee of Security and Stability in Europe”, for which Lithuanian and Polish Presidents Algirdas Brazauskas and Aleksander Kwasniewski acted as hosts in September of this year and which was attended by 12 Heads of State and Government, received joint greetings from the Presidents of Germany and France, Roman Herzog and Jacques Chirac. They wrote: 'It is time to foster a culture of cooperation and dialogue all over Europe and to harness the political energies of our peoples to bring about reconciliation and understanding ... Only in a spirit of unity, community, friendship and good- neighbourly relations, as well as mutual understanding, will we be able to build the future of our continent.' Here at the United Nations, I am tempted to quote this sentence, but with the last word, 'continent,' in the plural.  ﻿I would like, first of all, on behalf of the Bulgarian delegation to congratulate Mr. Udovenko on his election to the presidency of the fifty- second session of the General Assembly. His vast experience and knowledge will be of great importance for the successful fulfilment of the tasks facing the Organization today. I would also like to express our appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Razali Ismail, for his competence in presiding over the fifty-first session. The statements of previous speakers have proved the importance of the necessity for an efficient overall reform of the United Nations. I would like to declare Bulgaria s support for the position of the European Union, as stated in this general debate by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs of Luxembourg, Mr. Jacques Poos. The word “reform” has been used so much today in different parts of the world that I would be afraid of classifying United Nations reform with the various other reforms advocated by numerous politicians. If I take the liberty of sharing the Bulgarian experience, it is because in early 1997 my country lived through its genuine reformist resurrection. Hundreds of thousands of citizens walked in the streets of Sofia and other Bulgarian cities and towns to demand opportunities, not well-being. Their voice precipitated early parliamentary elections and brought a disastrous rule to an end. Obviously, three things are needed for the success of reform: vision, strategy and courage. The vision about where we want to go, the strategy for getting there and the courage to begin. I hope that the fifty-second session of the General Assembly will be remembered for decisive progress in designing and carrying out the reform of the United Nations. We have already heard the profound analysis and the valuable proposals put forward in the report of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan. It is now the turn of the representatives of Member States to commit their vision, sense of strategy and courage. Let me briefly present our views on the main aspects of the reform of the United Nations. The Bulgarian Government has thoroughly studied the proposals and the report of the Secretary-General. In principle, we support and approve of these proposals. The Republic of Bulgaria considers the ongoing discussion within the United Nations on the reform and enlargement of the Security Council to be positive and substantive. In our view, the decisions on these important matters should be reached by consensus. We believe that the enlargement should reflect the increased number of United Nations Member States. On the other hand, the growing economic and political potential of some Member States may attest to their ability and maturity to successfully assume the responsibilities and meet the challenges of permanent members of the Security Council. A fair decision on the enlargement of the Council should preserve the balance between the permanent and non-permanent members, as well as among the regional groups. Such a decision should also include the allocation of an additional non-permanent seat for the Group of Eastern European States. We support the efforts aimed at further improving the early warning system of the Organization. The new challenges to international peace and security demand an 25 enhanced role for United Nations peacekeeping operations. As an active participant in United Nations peacekeeping operations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Cambodia, Tajikistan and elsewhere, Bulgaria welcomes the growing efficiency of the Security Council and also supports an enhanced role for the Secretary-General in the field of preventive diplomacy. Bulgaria shares the view that future peacekeeping operations should encompass the whole complex of political, humanitarian and military aspects of peacekeeping in order to achieve maximum efficiency. Close cooperation with the regional security organizations and other relevant bodies is of key importance to the success of future United Nations peacekeeping efforts as well. For years now the United Nations has been operating under the burden of a serious financial crisis. Bulgaria supports the initiatives contained in the report of the Secretary-General aimed at elaborating criteria and mechanisms for stringent financial discipline, strict control and accountability. Such an approach could contribute to the successful implementation of the administrative reform and reorganization of the Secretariat. We believe that a new scale of assessments for contributions to the United Nations regular and peacekeeping budgets would allow greater account to be taken of the financial potential of individual Member States. Bulgaria shares the ideas expressed by the Secretary- General that the reform should be implemented within the framework of a complex approach that would not neglect the specific needs of the countries in transition and the smaller States. We support the efforts aimed at restructuring the governing institutions of the United Nations in the socio- economic field; at raising the operational capacity of the Economic and Social Council and of the specialized funds and programmes; and at transferring funds from management and administration to social and economic programmes. As Assembly members are probably aware, 1997 was a difficult but successful year for Bulgaria. The beginning of the year was marked by an acute economic, financial and political crisis, which resulted in the appointment of a caretaker government, the dissolution of the Bulgarian Parliament and early elections. At the same time, the civilized, peaceful and constitutional way in which Bulgarian society overcame the political crisis is a very important sign of the maturity of democracy in the country. At the elections held last April the Union of Democratic Forces won an overwhelming majority for their agenda: financial stabilization, market-oriented structural economic reform and speedy privatization; the strengthening and modernizing of State administration; rule of law and combating organized crime and corruption; and the integration of Bulgaria into the Euro- Atlantic community of nations. We have made every effort to implement this strategy, and today we already have the first positive results. In the political sphere, the transition to the rule of law, political pluralism and respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms has been completed. The democratic institutions are stable and enjoy the broad support of more than 50 per cent of the people. In the economic sphere, a currency board was successfully introduced as a means of guaranteeing financial stabilization and of restoring the confidence of the international financial institutions and business circles in Bulgaria. This has resulted in a radical decrease of the inflation rate and an increase in foreign investment and the country s currency reserves. The results of the crackdown on crime and corruption have re-established respect for law and order. Here I would like to point out that Bulgaria attaches great importance to the concerted efforts of the world community in the fight against organized crime and terrorism. We look forward to contributing to the efforts to elaborate the future international convention for the suppression of terrorist bombings and for the drafting of a widely accepted text of the statute of the international criminal court. We are also committed to draft regional programmes for preventing organized crime, international terrorism, illicit drugs and arms trafficking, illicit trade in nuclear materials and the trafficking of people. The desire of the Bulgarian Government to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the European Union underlies our foreign policy and is overwhelmingly supported by the Bulgarian nation. For us, accession to these institutions is an expression of the European identity of Bulgaria and an integral element of the political and economic transformation of the country. It is a question of immediate national interest and strategic priority, a matter of choice of civilization; and not an issue of politics of the day. 26 Bulgaria considers the decisions reached at the NATO Summit in Madrid as a historic opening of the alliance to the new European democracies. We feel strongly that the enlargement should continue as a geographically balanced process aimed at achieving equal security and stability in different regions; thus the risks of new dividing lines or grey zones in Europe would be avoided. Our Government is making great efforts to intensify its preparations for accession to the European Union, with a view to meeting the requirements for membership in the nearest possible future. We strongly hope for a political decision by the European Union to start the negotiations with all associated countries at the beginning of 1998. This would be a confirmation of the position that all candidate countries have equal chances of becoming members. Bulgaria considers these integration processes as a significant contribution to the strengthening of regional stability and security in south-eastern Europe. The Bulgarian Government is making every effort to promote European standards of international conduct in this part of the continent. Our approach has been backed by a number of important initiatives at the regional level. The cooperation between NATO members and partner countries in the area is an important element in this process, and Bulgaria has advanced ideas for an enhanced Euro-Atlantic cooperation on the security of south-eastern Europe and the Black Sea. Bulgaria will also continue to work actively along the lines of its 1996 initiative for security, stability and cooperation in south-eastern Europe. We attach great importance to the coordination of our efforts with the other initiatives for cooperation in the region, especially with the Royaumont process launched by the European Union and the South-east European Cooperative Initiative, sponsored by the United States. Our aspiration to non-permanent membership of the Security Council for the 2002-2003 period demonstrates our readiness to assume responsibilities for peace and security both in the region and in a wider international context. As members know, Bulgaria has suffered tremendous losses as a result of the strict implementation of the sanctions imposed by the Security Council against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Combined with the disadvantages caused by the sanctions against Libya and Iraq, the total amount of the direct and indirect costs to Bulgaria is comparable to the country s foreign debt. Therefore, the Republic of Bulgaria will continue to attach particular importance to the work being done within the United Nations system to address more effectively problems related to the implementation of Article 50 of the Charter. We welcome the provisions of the General Assembly resolutions urging the organizations within the United Nations system, international financial institutions and other international bodies to continue to address more specifically and directly the issue of economic assistance to third States affected by the implementation of the sanctions. I should like to draw the Assembly s attention to the possibility of granting certain exemptions from sanctions or creating a preferential regime for the most gravely affected third States. Naturally, these exemptions and preferences should be in accordance with the Charter. We believe that the burden of the specific economic problems created by the sanctions should be fairly distributed among all third countries and not borne by neighbouring States only. We strongly believe that while negotiating with sanction-affected third countries, the international financial institutions should take account of the need to compensate them indirectly. It is our understanding that the United Nations specialized agencies play an important role and provide valuable support to countries in their efforts to achieve sustainable development. The reforms which are under way in these agencies need the support of the Member States. The reform processes in the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) and other organizations give us hope of success. Bulgaria believes that the activities of international forums and bodies for human rights should be aimed at ensuring the effective exercise of these rights by every human being. The implementation of international standards could be achieved by improving existing mechanisms and by a constructive and open dialogue on the most sensitive issues. This approach is not directed a priori against any country or group of countries. In this context, Bulgaria attaches high importance to the guarantees for the human rights of Bulgarians living abroad and is closely watching the situation of Bulgarian minorities. We consider respect for the rights of Bulgarians in neighbouring States and the related implementation of international human rights standards as an important factor in the promotion of bilateral relations. 27 The monitoring and the effective control of the implementation of human rights and fundamental freedoms remains of critical importance, and Bulgaria reiterates its support for the efforts of the High Commissioner for Human Rights. I should like at this point to welcome the appointment of Ms. Mary Robinson to this high post and to wish her every success in her activities. The Bulgarian Government regards the possible spread of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery as one of the major concerns of the 1990s. The existing regimes of multilateral treaties, such as the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, the Chemical Weapons Convention and the Biological Weapons Convention, provide for basic restrictive norms in this field. The Republic of Bulgaria supports all international endeavours to meet the goals of non-proliferation and stands for a further strengthening of these regimes. The Conference on Disarmament is an appropriate forum for negotiations on the elimination of certain types of conventional weapons. A long-lasting solution should be found to the problem of anti-personnel landmines, the ban on which has humanitarian and disarmament aspects and needs a verification regime. We believe that the text of a new Convention that would ultimately ban all anti- personnel landmines, which was agreed at the Oslo Diplomatic Conference this month, could well serve as a basis for achieving a comprehensive and widely accepted international agreement. We also hope that the Ottawa process and the negotiations in the Conference on Disarmament will be mutually supportive and will result in an effective ban on anti-personnel landmines. In conclusion, finding an adequate solution to these problems will be impossible without the successful reform and restructuring of the United Nations Organization and of all its bodies. Therefore, we expect a decisive breakthrough in this direction at the present session of the General Assembly. I am personally convinced that by the end of this session the United Nations will have changed, and that this change will be for the better.  ﻿Mr. President, your election to preside over the fifty-second session of the General Assembly is a fitting and well-deserved result of your distinguished service for your country in the international community. I also wish to convey our appreciation to Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia for so ably directing the work of the fifty-first session, and to congratulate him for a job well done. I join those who have spoken before me in welcoming the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan to this, his first General Assembly session since his assumption of office. Already he has impressed us with his sincerity of purpose and his willingness to take bold initiatives. He can always rely on Jamaica’s full cooperation and support 4 as he seeks to steer the United Nations towards the new millennium. Exactly 35 years ago, Jamaica became a Member of the United Nations by one of its first acts as a sovereign nation. We did so in recognition of the central role in the management of global affairs which only the United Nations can fill and from our desire to participate as an equal partner in that process. Ever since then, Jamaica has actively sought to contribute in a constructive spirit to the building and strengthening of the international system. One concrete result of these efforts is the location in Jamaica of an offshoot of the system, the International Seabed Authority, established under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which is generally acknowledged to have been a signal achievement in extending the reach of international cooperation. We feel confident that the Authority will be able to discharge its mandate efficiently as a completely autonomous institution. We are constantly reminded that we are approaching a new century and a new millennium. This new era provides exciting possibilities and, at the same time, poses formidable challenges. It requires of us a creative effort to find new directions and a continuing search for fresh solutions. The fluidity and changing currents in world affairs demand constant adaptation and adjustments to meet contemporary realities. Some old disputes remain unresolved, and an array of new problems continues to enter the international agenda. The situation in the Middle East should not be allowed to remain forever a source of anxiety and frustration. The rise of ethnic violence and intercommunal conflict must be halted now. Whatever cloud of uncertainty may hang over the future, we must not fail to lay the foundations of a more stable and equitable world order which fosters greater hope and wider opportunities for mankind. As we seek to strengthen the fabric of international security, there needs to be a concentrated focus on the root causes of instability, conflict and confrontation everywhere. The danger signals are unmistakably clear. The coexistence of a world of wealth and prosperity and a world of poverty and misery is too profound a contradiction to be ignored. It lies at the heart of an emerging crisis. More than one billion human beings are still condemned to abject poverty. The despair and frustration which form their daily experience breed tension and trigger instability which are bound to erupt from time to time. In a world where we note with increasing concern the absence of appropriate measures by multilateral financial institutions to relieve the burden of debt, we are bound to question whether the economic measures applied in the last few years represent the only way for developing countries to orient their economies. We cannot accept that the impoverishment of millions is a necessary cost of future world growth. Globalization and liberalization, which have led to the breaking down of so many barriers between nations, are not removing the barriers between rich and poor. The process seems instead to be widening the differences and deepening the divide. The benefits of increased production and the expansion of global trade have been unevenly spread. Many developing countries are being increasingly marginalized in the process. Expected transfers of resources from increased trade and investment flows have not materialized, while the burden of debt remains a major constraint on development. Simply put, the rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer. Unless we redress the imbalance — and quickly — the disparities will increase exponentially. To avert imminent disaster, there has to be a reversal of the pattern of transfer of technology and more liberal access to the markets of developed countries. In all this, the United Nations has a decisive and strategic role to play. It should direct and channel international cooperation to correct distortions and inequities in the system, and contribute to the creation of an international economic environment facilitating economic growth and the benefits of development for all. The new trading system is skewed in favour of the economically powerful. It is becoming more and more apparent that free trade, as practised by its loudest advocates, is not necessarily fair trade. For developing countries, access to larger markets remains difficult, owing to a variety of protective barriers. And where special and historical market arrangements for small producers still exist, these are now under threat from alliances of powerful governmental and private interests. We developing countries cannot afford to shut ourselves off from what is taking place around us. The pace of change is at times bewildering, but we cannot say, “Stop the world, I want to get off”. We must make use of the positive elements of modernity, organization of work and efficiency, to build the kind of society we wish to leave to our children. The empowerment of all of the 5 peoples of our countries is of paramount importance to the advancement of our societies. Such empowerment requires that priority attention be given to human-resource development and human-capital formation, and to the optimal utilization of all the available human and natural resources of our time. Increasingly, where this has not already started, our programmes of education and training will have to be redesigned and refocused to enable our peoples to function effectively in the emerging knowledge-based world economy. Applications of science and technology and advances in telecommunications must become all-pervasive factors to be effectively and appropriately utilized for the benefit of our peoples. Nothing would better fulfil the lofty ideals of our founding fathers than an immediate global assault on poverty, ignorance and disease. To win the battle, I call upon this Assembly to emphasize the creation, application and dissemination of knowledge in every corner of the Earth. Liberalization and globalization, as they are being practised, have not shown the capacity or willingness to take into account the genuine interests or practical possibilities of small States. This is the painful lesson that we as Caribbean producers of bananas have learned. The recent panel ruling by the World Trade Organization (WTO) in Geneva on the European banana regime threatens to ruin the economies of the smaller States of the Caribbean, thereby endangering the economic stability of the entire region. It demonstrates not only the vulnerability of small economies, but also the extent to which we are at the mercy of those whose calculations seem oblivious to the interests of our survival. Small economies operate under severe resource constraints and need to conserve the natural environment, which is a precious resource. That is why countries members of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) attach special importance to international recognition of the peculiar circumstances and needs of small island developing States, as highlighted in the Barbados Programme of Action, which was adopted by the United Nations Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. It is with great disappointment that we note how little progress has been made to implement the Programme of Action. There is a special need for financing arrangements to develop production capabilities, infrastructure and environmental protection programmes. Small island States suffer other disadvantages. The Caribbean is renowned for its natural beauty, but it is also vulnerable to a range of frequent natural disasters. To the physical limitations in resources and economic scale have been added the hazards of nature. Even as I speak, the people of the small island of Montserrat are struggling to maintain their existence in their own land, two thirds of which has been destroyed by a volcano that resumed activity just over two years ago. As a member of the Caribbean Community, Montserrat's plight is of grave concern to all CARICOM States. I speak on behalf of the Community in acknowledging the categorical commitment given by the administering Power, the United Kingdom, for both emergency assistance to Montserratians and for the sustainable development of that territory. The costs of reconstruction are immense. Members of the Caribbean Community have offered constructive support to the recovery efforts. We believe that the international community should also respond in a humanitarian gesture of solidarity. I therefore take this opportunity to appeal to the General Assembly to demonstrate appropriate support for Montserrat through the adoption of tangible measures to assist in the rebuilding and sustainable development of that island. It is our hope and expectation that the membership of the United Nations will be able to devise a specific scheme of assistance for a small and courageous people. We all look to the United Nations to help in emergencies, but above all, to be effective in keeping the peace. It should be ready to respond promptly to crises as they occur and to defuse tensions and conflict situations through preventive diplomacy. We believe the present time affords a significant opportunity for creating the framework to fulfil this role and for us to shape a rapid- response capability. In recent years, a number of unilateral as well as multilateral measures have resulted in a more positive climate for international peace and security. The conclusion of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty at the fiftieth session of the General Assembly and the entry into force of the Chemical Weapons Convention have enhanced the prospects for real progress towards the goal of general and complete disarmament. We nevertheless acknowledge that more needs to be done in 6 the areas of arms regulation and disarmament, in respect especially of conventional weapons and the proliferation of small arms. We welcome the steps being taken to prohibit the use of anti-personnel landmines, which should be regarded as a category of inhumane weapons that can no longer be allowed to cause the maiming and loss of life of civilians. We urge Member States to give full support to the Ottawa process for the conclusion of an international treaty to ban this category of weapons so that there can be universal obedience. The threat to international peace and security can no longer be viewed in purely military and political terms. Illicit trafficking in drugs poses a serious threat, as all too often we witness the pervasive and pernicious effects of the production and consumption of illicit drugs. The massive demand and the lure of profits from the trade have spawned a transnational network of criminals with considerable resources and influence. The activities of these groups are particularly threatening to small States such as those in the Caribbean, where the State apparatus is often stretched to deal with their coercive capability. Within the Caribbean Community we have taken these threats seriously and have committed significant resources to confronting them. Our geographical proximity to the major destination for the consumption of drugs makes the Caribbean particularly vulnerable as a transshipment point. We therefore view bilateral and regional cooperation as critical to combating drug smuggling. An associated problem that is particularly dangerous for us is the smuggling of arms and weapons of destruction, which is a significant factor in spreading a cycle of crime and violence. CARICOM has pushed for a regional initiative to attack this problem. We look forward to hemisphere support, particularly in restricting illegal exports from the main areas of manufacturing and sale of small arms. It is evident from all the forces at work that the imperatives of interdependence, the impact of globalization and the interlinkage in global problems require a renewal and strengthening of multilateralism. With the end of the cold war, we now have within our grasp the opportunity to establish a lasting framework for international cooperation and to build genuine partnerships that will guarantee a future that is secure for all. The challenges of the emerging world order are best addressed by multilateral approaches. Isolationism and unilateralism cannot be viable options, but multilateralism can thrive only if there are effective multilateral institutions. The United Nations remains indispensable as the only universal mechanism capable of addressing issues of global impact and concern. But we must realize that the international society which the United Nations now serves is vastly different from the one in existence when the Organization was originally created. The reshaping of the United Nations therefore has to take into account new and complex international realities. Without compromising the fundamental objectives of the Charter, we need new rules and procedures to guide us. Of special importance is the reform of the Security Council, in terms of both composition and mode of operation. The Council is a vital organ in the working of the United Nations. It is essential for its effectiveness that it command the confidence of the international community. Jamaica supports an expansion of membership of the Council which will make it more representative of the international community. We advocate the adoption of procedures that will make it more democratic and transparent in decision-making. We recognize that there are important and delicate issues at stake and that we should proceed with care, but we have a concern that the process should not be mired in endless debate. We believe there is a sufficient consensus on proposals to form the basis for decisions soon. We also acknowledge that more efficient management and more scope for effective initiative by the Secretary-General and his staff are essential to a strengthened United Nations structure. We support the Secretary-General in this endeavour. Jamaica also endorses the need for measures to improve efficiency, and we have no quarrel with reform to streamline and rationalize the system. In welcoming these steps, we must however emphasize that reform is not synonymous with cost cutting. Reform is not about doing less; it is about doing better. We would therefore wish to see a process that strengthens the capacity of the United Nations to deliver the services required by Member States as well as cement the linkages among the organs of the system while preserving comparative advantages, complementarities and synergies. The exercise must improve the capacity of the United Nations to take preventive action and respond 7 swiftly to crises. Above all, for small developing nations such as my own it is important that the Organization continue to play a leadership role in defining global development priorities. Not all Member States will readily embrace the reform proposals that have been introduced, yet no one can deny the need for meaningful action to strengthen and improve the United Nations system. We must therefore seek to find common cause and summon the collective will to implement the measures that are necessary for its revitalization. It is our collective responsibility. Effective reform of our global institution requires broad agreement on the main features of the new global environment. We must clearly define the role the United Nations is expected to play in the next millennium. Our common vision must be one in which the United Nations can act as the catalyst for change and an instrument of progress on behalf of all peoples of the world. Let us resolve to equip the United Nations with the necessary tools, including the requisite financial resources in accordance with Charter obligations, to enable it effectively to undertake its leadership role in safeguarding international peace and security in ensuring the economic and social well-being of mankind. It is our responsibility, and our peoples are looking for an institution energized to act effectively and swiftly to address the challenges that confront us as we approach the twenty-first century. Let us exploit the opportunity we now have to fashion a United Nations which reflects the hope and aspirations of all mankind for sustainable development, for lasting security and for enduring peace. The new millennium beckons with its endless possibilities and challenges. Let not narrow self-interest prevent us from taking bold and decisive steps to meet these challenges. Jamaica and the Caribbean Community stand ready to play their part in a cooperative effort to attain global equity and prosperity. All of us owe it to ourselves and to succeeding generations. I urge the international community wholeheartedly to embrace this venture in a genuine spirit of solidarity and harmony. History will not forgive us should we fail to do so. ﻿It is indeed an honour once again to address the General Assembly. On behalf of the people of Sierra Leone, and on my own behalf, I congratulate you, Sir, on your election to preside over the work of this session, which you rightly described as one that can mark the beginning of a new era in United Nations history. Ukraine, a founding Member of our Organization, is well known for its decisive stand on unilateral nuclear disarmament. This in itself is a major contribution to the promotion of international peace and security. As an experienced diplomat and former senior member of the Secretariat, you are fully equipped to steer this session to a successful conclusion. I wish also to pay tribute to your predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia, for the firm and skilful manner in which he led the Assembly in dealing with the issues of the fifty-first session. We commend the Secretary-General for the bold effort he has made so far in mapping out the tracks of his quiet revolution, a reform of the Secretariat. This is perhaps the first time in the history of the Organization 7 that we have in the same session a President of the General Assembly and a Secretary-General both of whom were staff members of the United Nations Secretariat. I would like to convey through the Secretary-General our appreciation to the entire staff of the United Nations system, who have been and continue to be pillars supporting the structures of peace and economic and social well-being which our Organization is building in various parts of the world. When I addressed this body last year, I spoke at length about my Government’s efforts to reach a peace agreement with the Revolutionary United Front (RUF), the settlement of people displaced by the conflict and our efforts at national reconciliation. I also spoke of our hopes: our hopes for the consolidation of our new democracy, for the revival of our economy and for the regeneration of communities scarred by years of war. These were no starry-eyed pronouncements. We were too well aware of the challenges which the achievement of these objectives entailed, but we were tackling them in a spirit of realism within the framework of a united national effort and, above all, in confident hope. In the economic sphere, for example, the response was promising. My Government was credited within a year with the introduction of a social security scheme and a minimum wage act; accountability and transparency in public spending; trade liberalization and public enterprise reform, including privatization; reduction of the rate of inflation from 65 per cent to 6 per cent; achievement of a 5 per cent economic growth rate, which had been minus 10 per cent a year earlier; and plans for an investment code. These are some of the signposts of confidence which national and international investors saw when they concluded that Sierra Leone was well on its way to economic recovery. Prospects for that recovery were at their highest in more than two decades. Today I appear before you with a heavy heart. As I speak, a great tragedy is unfolding in my country. On 25 May 1997, a combination of elements of the Sierra Leone army and the Revolutionary United Front violently overthrew my democratically elected Government and unleashed on the country a reign of terror unprecedented in its scope and ferocity. Overnight, Sierra Leone was transformed into a gulag of horrors: the killing of defenceless, innocent civilians, looting, confiscation of property and rape. These atrocities continue. The people of Sierra Leone have been ushered into a long night of darkness. For the first time in our history, the survival of our national society as a morally and socially cohesive whole has been put into question. It is against the background of these dramatically changed conditions in my country that I appear before you today, to make an appeal — a desperate appeal — for help from the international community to save a nation and a people. My presence on this podium symbolizes the people of Sierra Leone stretching out their hands to the United Nations, asking it to pull them back from the brink of catastrophe. The people of Sierra Leone are united in a common fear, the fear that unless something is done, and done now, the barbarism and adventurism of the military junta will push the country over the brink. Their hope is that the international community will not allow the military junta to convert their country into one vast killing field. If the prevailing situation is allowed to drift much longer, because of a failure of political will, or for any other reason, then the hopes of a peace-loving nation for a life worthy of normal human beings will have been betrayed. I am more than convinced that this cannot be what the United Nations would like to see happen in Sierra Leone. My belief in the United Nations, as the custodian of world peace and security, and as the ultimate defence of the weak and the defenceless, remains as strong as ever. It is on the strength of this conviction, which has been a part of all my adult life, that I bring the case of Sierra Leone to the attention of the Assembly. Only the speedy restoration of the democratically elected Government of Sierra Leone can provide a lasting solution to the crisis and enable the country to return to normalcy and to resume its place as a responsible member of the community of nations. This is no self-serving statement. To insist on the restoration of my Government is no more than to insist that the Government which the people of Sierra Leone freely and openly elected in the most closely invigilated election in the post-independence history of the country be restored to them. Indeed, when the Summit of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) held in Harare considered the matter it resolved strongly and unequivocally to condemn the coup d’état and called for the immediate restoration of constitutional order in Sierra Leone. My Government emerged as a result of a transition process under the their military regime of the National Provisional Ruling Council. It was that regime which appointed the Interim National Electoral Commission as the management body responsible for the conduct of both the parliamentary and presidential elections. At the request of the Interior National Electoral Commission, the Commonwealth secretariat in London provided three 8 experts, including a legal draftsman, to help with the preparations for the elections. None of these people had been to Sierra Leone before and they knew nobody in the country. The point of their attachment to the Interior National Electoral Commission was to bring to bear on the work of the Commission the highest international electoral practices. The European Union also provided a voter education expert from Britain, while the United Nations supplied a logistical expert. In other words, at the heart of the election management body, the international community had a presence to ensure the highest standard of probity and transparency in the conduct of the elections. In January 1996, in the middle of the preparations for the elections, Brigadier Maada Bio forced Captain Valentine Strasser out of office as Chairman of the National Provisional Ruling Council and immediately launched a campaign to postpone the elections. The banner of that campaign was “Peace before Elections”. A national consultative conference comprising representatives of political parties, the army, the police, trade unions, women’s organizations, the churches and mosques and other organizations of civil society was convened in February 1996 to pronounce on the matter. I should add that in attendance were also representatives of the international community. The overwhelming majority of the delegates to the conference supported the holding of elections. Incidentally, the Revolutionary United Front was invited to participate in the democratic process. Clearly illustrating its attitude towards legitimate democratic principles and procedures, the Front categorically refused to honour the invitation. And so the elections were held on 26 and 27 February 1996. There were observers from the Commonwealth, the Organization of African Unity (OAU), the African- American Institute, the African-American Labor Center, the Commonwealth Trade Union Council and the World Council of Churches, all coordinated by no less a body than the United Nations itself. At the close of polling, and long before the official declaration of the results, the international observers made a joint statement on 29 February 1996, in which they said that, despite setbacks, they had witnessed a remarkably peaceful, orderly and transparent conduct of the vote, which led them to conclude “that the results will genuinely reflect the will of the people of Sierra Leone and usher in an era of democracy”. Having failed to prevent the holding of the elections through political manoeuvring, the anti-democratic forces within the army and their Revolutionary United Front allies launched a campaign of terror and intimidation in those parts of the countryside where the rebels had a presence to scare away people from voting. Many innocent men and women had their hands cut off. Some were branded with hot irons and many more were mutilated in ways that I cannot describe in public. But no intimidation could overcome the determination of the people to put an end to military rule and all its associated abuses. The elections which brought my Government into office were more than an electoral exercise to replace one Government with another. They were no less than an opportunity — indeed, a historic opportunity — for the people of Sierra Leone to put an end to nearly 30 years of undemocratic rule, the last four of which were an outright military dictatorship. In retrospect, the victories of the people, first against the political sleight of hand to stop the elections, and then against the campaign of terror and intimidation to scare away the voters from the polling booths, seem to have left the reactionary forces in our country with only one remaining avenue to their objective, the unconstitutional overthrow of any civil Government, and that was precisely what happened on 25 May. The people of Sierra Leone have responded to the coup in a manner unique in the history of Africa. Thousands of citizens, some out of fear for their lives and other human rights violations, simply abandoned their homes and their country, moved into neighbouring countries, declaring they would rather live as refugees outside Sierra Leone than stay under the rule of the illegal junta. Those who stayed behind have refused to go to work and have in various ways refused to cooperate with the junta. This is the manifestation of the determination of Sierra Leoneans never to surrender their hard-won democracy. The struggle under way in my country is between the unarmed millions defending the cause of democracy and the armed reactionary clique of mutinous soldiers and their Revolutionary United Front cohorts. In embarking on that perilous struggle, the people of Sierra Leone were never in doubt as to where the sheer military advantage lay. What continues to sustain the determined resistance of the people and to fortify their courage is the belief, and the expectation, that the international community cannot, 9 and will not, let them down — indeed, the belief that, whatever hardship they are facing at the moment, right will ultimately triumph over might. No one who has seen the reign of terror unleashed by the regime on the defenceless citizenry or witnessed the daily looting, rape and other brutalities which have now become a way of life in Sierra Leone can mistake this for peace. There is no peace in Sierra Leone. What is happening is that the horrors which the RUF inflicted on the rural communities — the killings, the amputation of limbs, the looting, the arbitrary and illegal seizure of private property of all kinds and many other crimes — have now been generalized to encompass the urban centres as well. To further compound their assault on innocent civilians, the illegal junta has finally resorted to the laying of anti-personnel landmines throughout the country, and within the capital city itself. I need not spell out what a horrific act this represents as far as innocent men, women and children are concerned as they begin to fall victim to these hidden devices. This was precisely what my Government set out to avert. In my inaugural statement as President, I made the pursuit of peace and the end of the rebel war my most urgent priority. Within a matter of days of assuming office, I signed a communiqué at Yamoussoukro, in Côte d’Ivoire, with the leader of the RUF, Corporal Foday Sankoh, in which we effectively agreed upon a permanent ceasefire. That agreement opened the way for substantive negotiations between the Government and the RUF, culminating in the Abidjan peace accord of 30 November 1996. What my Government did not know was that the RUF was negotiating in bad faith. We took the RUF at its word and assumed that its professed commitment to peace was genuine. The negotiations were protracted because the RUF was adamant on certain issues. We conceded on those particular issues with the hope that the RUF would honour the resulting accord. This is, of course, not to suggest that there were no doubters in our ranks who harboured misgivings about the sincerity of the RUF. We had our share of these doubting Thomases, but on the basis of our peoples yearning for peace, we elected to be guided more by our hopes and less by our fears. After peace, national reconciliation was another central plank of my Government’s policy. The pursuit of that policy began with the very configuration of my administration. My party had a substantial majority in Parliament, and I myself had won the presidential elections with a convincing majority. On the basis of the outcome of the elections, therefore, I was under no obligation to include in my Government people from other parties. But I took a wider view of the matter and decided that if the cause of national reconciliation was to be advanced it would be desirable to have a broad-based Government. Accordingly, I appointed the leader of one of the minority parties to be my Minister of Finance, making him, effectively, the third most senior member of the Government. Other ministerial and senior positions were filled by people drawn from other political parties. What emerged as a result was a broad-based Government of national unity in all but name. The policy of national reconciliation was taken further. The previous military regime, the National Provisional Ruling Council (NPRC) had confiscated the properties of many senior Sierra Leoneans not on the basis of law or due process, but on ad hoc commissions of inquiry whose findings were not published and were subject to no appeal. No one pretended that justice had been done by the work of those commissions of inquiry. Yet, on the basis of their findings, not only had many people lost their properties, some of them had also been disqualified from holding public office. If Sierra Leone’s new democracy was to mean anything, this was a state of affairs which could not be allowed to continue. I appointed a National Commission for Reconciliation and applied to the Commonwealth secretariat for a senior Commonwealth judge to review the findings of the commission of inquiry and to put right what had been put wrong. I wanted a judge of suitable seniority and distinction whose verdict would command respect. The Commonwealth Secretary-General secured for me the services of judge Ulric Cross of Trinidad and Tobago. He was due to return to Sierra Leone to resume his chairmanship of the National Commission for Reconciliation when the coup took place. Following the earlier coup of April 1992, which had installed the NPRC military regime in power, many Sierra Leoneans went into exile. They, too, had to be enabled to come home in security and in dignity. Former President Joseph Saidu Momoh had been living in exile in Guinea since the coup of April 1992. My Government brought him home and resettled him in a manner befitting a man who had been our Head of State. I have gone into this background in detail to show what my Government did to end the war that had been raging for the best part of five years, to achieve national reconciliation and to usher in lasting peace. All this and much else will be erased if the regime is allowed to 10 remain in power. The burning question before the world community, therefore, is how best to bring a swift end to the ruinous regime of the military and to enable Sierra Leone to rejoin the mainstream of human society. Some people with the best of intentions but with little knowledge of the situation have called for negotiations to end the tragedy unfolding in Sierra Leone.I have been involved in negotiations of one kind or another throughout my career. In fact, in a sense negotiating is second nature to me. Accordingly, I have no problems with the principle of negotiation. But it would be utterly disingenuous of me not to state the serious reservations I hold about negotiating with the junta. In the first place, the junta is an unstable coalition. On the surface it presents itself as a government in which every member shares collective responsibility for decisions jointly taken. In reality it is nothing of the kind. There is nothing collective about the junta except the determination of its constituent parts to hang on to power. For now the RUF may be allied with some elements of the army, but there is no pretence that they are motivated by the same long-term objectives. The RUF is not the army, and it is certainly not under the command of the mutinous faction of the Army. The RUF has a separate and independent command structure, and it takes its instructions from its own high command. Therefore, based on our experience, in any putative negotiations with the RUF it can be expected to come to the table with its own set of demands. The decision of one part of the unstable coalition will not, by any stretch of the imagination, bind the other. Indeed, precisely because they have separate and quite possibly conflicting objectives there is hardly any prospect of negotiating with anything like a unified position. In the second place, the RUF is undoubtedly the faction with the upper hand within the junta. The RUF’s principal objective all along has been to take and keep power by all means, including terror and murder. In its present configuration, the RUF has no coherent programme to speak of. Rather than yield power peacefully, the RUF has threatened to launch a scorched-earth campaign to reduce the country to ashes. Its position is that if it cannot rule Sierra Leone, nobody else should. And if none of these points is convincing, we have only to look at the way in which the junta has handled the negotiations with the Committee of four Foreign Ministers of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). The three-point ECOWAS formula for the resolution of the Sierra Leone crisis entailed, in order, “the early reinstatement of the legitimate Government of President Tejan Kabbah, the return of peace and security and the resolution of the issues of refugees and displaced persons”. This was the basis on which the regime entered into negotiations with the ECOWAS Committee of four. The third meeting between the Committee and representatives of the regime in Abidjan took place on 30 July 1997. It was expected to be a breakthrough meeting. However, while it was in progress, the leader of the junta made a radio and television broadcast in which he stated clearly that his regime was determined to remain in power for a minimum of four years. His statement was intended to wreck the talks, and that was exactly what it did. He has not retracted his determination to stay in power for four years. If, in spite of the illegal junta’s record of bad faith, the international community insists that we must take the path of negotiations, then I suggest that such negotiations should be held between the junta and the Committee of ECOWAS Foreign Ministers, whose membership has now been increased to five. And for those negotiations to be meaningful, they must proceed on the basis of clear understandings. In the first place, if the negotiations are resumed, the three-point ECOWAS negotiating agenda must remain the agenda of such negotiations. Then they must be time-bound. If they are open-ended, the regime can be expected to filibuster and to spin them out indefinitely in the hope that it will achieve a creeping de facto recognition by the international community. Then, the junta’s delegation must always be led by the junta leader himself. The Committee of five should insist on no less, because if the regime’s delegation is led by anyone else, the scope for subsequent repudiation and double-dealing will become infinite. Finally, to ensure that the regime treats the negotiations with the seriousness they deserve, existing international pressures and measures must not only be maintained but further strengthened. In that way the genuineness of the regime’s declared intention to negotiate will be tested. When all this is done and an agreement is reached, we will still have to face the task of achieving genuine and total national reconciliation. What Sierra Leone needs today more than anything else is peace and reconciliation. I have never lost sight of this need, and it is the one objective which has influenced every step that I have taken since assuming office in March 1996. The events of 25 May have only further deepened those divisions within 11 our society which my policies had begun to heal. As a result, the adoption of a more vigorous policy of national reconciliation has become an absolute necessity. It would not be exaggerating the case to say that the brand of political persuasion practised by the military-RUF coalition borders on systematic genocide. Since 25 May 1997, whole villages, entire communities and targeted families have been wholly or partially decimated in the eastern, northern and southern provinces of Sierra Leone, in Moyamba, Bonthe, Sanda, Bumpe, Kumrabai, Foredugu — the list is endless. That is why many Sierra Leoneans strongly believe that a war crimes tribunal should be appointed to try all those who had a hand in the making of our tragedy. I understand the feelings behind this demand, but I reject it. l reject it because it will add to our already grave problems and postpone lasting national reconciliation. Throughout this address I have tried to draw a distinction between elements of the army in complicity with the head of the junta and the bulk of the army, who are basically decent men and women and loyal to the best traditions of the Sierra Leone army. Even so, I do not believe that any worthwhile national purpose will be served by a policy of reprisals against the misguided elements of the army and others in the junta’s camp. We seek no more from the United Nations than the assurance of 6 August 1997 contained in the statement made by the President of the Security Council: “The Security Council will, in the absence of a satisfactory response from the military junta, be ready to take appropriate measures with the objective of restoring the democratically elected Government of President Kabbah.” (S/PRST/1997/42, p. 1) At the same time, we are asking the Security Council to assist ECOWAS and the ECOWAS Monitoring Group (ECOMOG) in giving practical effect to that objective. By doing so, the Council will not only be saving the lives of the people of Sierra Leone, but will also be averting an escalation of the crisis which now threatens peace and security in our subregion. And here I should like to take this opportunity to express, on behalf of my Government and the people of Sierra Leone, our sincere appreciation to the Heads of State and the Committee of Foreign Ministers of ECOWAS for their efforts over the past four months in pursuit of their objective, which the Security Council supports. Once the objective of restoring the democratically elected Government is achieved, my Government will, in the same spirit of reconciliation which had guided its policies since the 1996 elections, consider, in an appropriate forum, the serious question of security and full implementation of the Abidjan Peace Agreement. Security is paramount. Without security, no meaningful humanitarian assistance can reach the people of Sierra Leone. Notwithstanding the acts of bad faith initiated by the RUF to derail the peace process and despite the dangerous coalition which had emerged since the 25 May coup, my Government, the legal Government of Sierra Leone, is committed to the Agreement. We are also committed to the Secretary-General’s plan and recommendations, submitted to the Security Council last January, for the establishment and maintenance of a peacekeeping operation in Sierra Leone in connection with the implementation of the Abidjan Peace Agreement. We are ready to reactivate my Government’s agenda for reconciliation, resettlement of refugees and displaced persons, and rehabilitation and reconstruction which the military-RUF junta so ruthlessly disrupted almost five months ago. We owe it to our people to continue the transformation of our economy from emergency relief programmes to realistic projects for medium- and long- term self-sufficiency. Of course, we know that this is not going to be easy. However, we are confident that the immediate and unconditional restoration of my Government, the Government elected by the people, constitutes the first step towards that transformation.  ﻿I wish to take this opportunity, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, to congratulate Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko on his election and to commend the President of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly for a job well done. My delegation has stressed the importance of sustainable development ever since we first became a Member of the United Nations. Our convictions and our support were most recently reiterated by His Excellency The Honourable Imata Kabua, President of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, at the special session of the General Assembly to review Agenda 21. It is, and will remain, the cornerstone of the Government’s policy, but I must recall the sentiments that we have often voiced: sustainable development is not the easiest path to travel for a small country like the Marshall Islands. There are numerous obstacles which we must face and which are impeding our progress. Please let me try to put this into better perspective. Population growth in the Marshall Islands and in many parts of the Pacific is of great concern to our Governments. It has been as high as 4.2 per cent but now appears to be slowing down to 3.5 per cent. This is nevertheless far too high a figure for our small country to sustain. With rather limited resource bases to begin with, it is difficult to imagine what job opportunities will have to be created for new generations. We are already facing problems with layoffs in the public sector. Granted, it was much too large. It was at one point almost 60 per cent of the work force but is now down to 43 per cent. This is still a very high number, and we are looking into all sorts of methods of increasing private sector investment to increase private sector employment. But population growth also has a negative impact on our local environment. There is a growing trend of migration to the two main urban centres of the Marshall Islands — Majuro, the capital, and Ebeye, close to the United States base at Kwajalein. These areas are becoming increasingly crowded, and there is an urgent need to find local solutions. There is a great need to improve urban conditions, but at the same time we also wish to reduce the rate at which the urban centre population grows. In a democracy like ours, it is difficult to try to impose any restrictions; instead, we have tried to look into incentives. One idea that has been tried is job creation in the outer islands. We have long been aware of the potential that the outer islands could have if there were only more investment in sustainable development projects. Population growth is causing difficulties for the country in many diverse fields, but Government and local authority action is making some progress. Our youth and church groups in particular are taking up this issue as a main concern for the future. But this is only one of many problem which we have to face. 22 We have by no means given up on the struggle to achieve sustainable development and the improvement of living standards in the Marshall Islands. On the Government side we are first of all looking at how existing structures can be reformed and how better to utilize our resources. We are interested in any innovations that could help us. But it is increasingly clear that if we are to break out of destructive cycles and move away from unsustainable patterns, then we must all work together. There will continue to be a need for external assistance to the Republic of the Marshall Islands, but this can and must be channelled in a more appropriate manner. Last year we reported that the damage caused by nuclear-weapons testing in the Marshall Islands was far more extensive and devastating than previously understood. We now know that many more islands and groups of people were affected. The testing programme in the Marshall Islands helped the international community understand the effects of nuclear weapons on people and the environment. This knowledge was a contributing factor to the prevention of nuclear war during the cold-war era. In the Marshall Islands, we believe that we played a significant role in bringing about the end of the cold war. We share the commitment of the United Nations to world peace, security and disarmament. There is little question that the nuclear-testing programme in the Marshall Islands was the defining experience of the Marshallese people in this century. The 67 nuclear-weapon tests conducted in our country and the tests conducted on our neighbouring Pacific islands contaminated every inch of our environment and exposed each one of our citizens to radiation. As a result, my Government is desperately seeking resources to address the direct medical and environmental consequences of radiation exposure, since we do not have sufficient funds. We are also struggling to deal with the indirect problems of the displacement of, and the lack of adequate medical care for, the affected population. It places an additional burden on our already constrained medical care resources. We cannot solve these problems on our own, and we feel obliged to appeal to the international community. We certainly appreciate all efforts to address our problems made by our former administering authority, and we are encouraged by recent indications that the United States is willing to address outstanding concerns. Yet present efforts to address lingering consequences are inadequate. Marshallese people have the basic human right, like all people throughout the world, to a healthy and clean environment. We are justified, therefore, in asking assistance in restoring our lands and returning our displaced populations to a safe environment. In this regard the United Nations has an important role to play. We are encouraged that the International Atomic Energy Agency is in the process of conducting a survey in the northern areas of the Marshall Islands. But another body, the United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation, could in our view have a much greater role. We have noted the terms of reference of that Scientific Committee, and we see no reason why it cannot undertake studies that could in the future assist those populations that are suffering from the effects of atomic radiation. In our view it must go beyond a simple academic understanding and have a role that would allow more interaction with affected countries. I was also a little puzzled by the brevity of the Scientific Committee’s last report — only one page. We would like to request that the Committee expand its scope of work, to see how it could look into areas, like the Marshall Islands, affected by nuclear tests. We would be willing to assist the Scientific Committee in obtaining, for its consideration, documents and declassified information pertaining to nuclear testing and its effects on people. My delegation intends to review this issue in the Fourth Committee. My country, all low-lying atolls, with no mountains, is also facing a most serious threat of sea level rise. While we are here discussing this issue, the effects of erosion, storms and tide surges are already being felt in the Marshall Islands. We are of the firm opinion that the scientists working with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) have by now made such a convincing argument about this troubling issue. This consensus has been reflected in the acceptance by all Governments concerned of the Second Assessment Report of the IPCC. As a result of this acceptance of the scientific proof, we would have expected, at the very least, that the developed countries would agree to undertake so-called no-regrets measures. Such measures seek to improve efficiency and reduce waste, and to develop alternative sources of energy. My Government fully supports such initiatives, as they seem to us to be a perfectly sensible way to begin addressing climate change. But we are finding that there is resistance even to such a modest idea aimed at trying to halt this irresponsible waste of natural resources and fossil fuels. I have been hearing reports that in the negotiating process there are still those countries that seek to undermine the process itself for their own short-term gains. I can only say that my Government is saddened by these countries’ attitude. 23 For this reason, a Pacific regional expert group has warned that we may have to look at our migration options, rather than adaptation options. Are we willing to see the disappearance of whole countries for the sake of short-term economic gain? A recent newspaper ad campaign here in the United States has further attempted to add confusion and doubt in regard to the scientific evidence, and is also spreading alarmist doomsday scenarios for the economies of the developed countries. This is simply a misrepresentation of what is being discussed and of what has been proposed, as well as what is likely to be the result if we do not act now. I was further amazed at seeing television ads stating similar misleading information. The question that appears to be raised is that the developed countries will pay a heavy financial price for ineffective measures. The suggestion here is that climate change is a preposterous plot by developing countries to dominate the industrialized economies. But climate change would be costly to us all. The destruction of small island developing States and other low-lying areas will only be the first marker as the flood gates open for full-blown climate change. There should be no misconception that there is any other option except action to significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions. I wish to state our position, supported by scientists, economists and concerned people, that inaction will result in a disaster for mankind. What we need as the first step are significant, legally binding cuts in the greenhouse gas emissions of the industrialized world. Please allow me to state our gratitude to and full support for the Secretary-General in his efforts and proposals to reform the United Nations. His report has been studied by our officials, and we have concluded that we must give the Secretary-General our full backing on his vision for a reformed United Nations. I have some experience with the difficulties of bringing reform to an unwilling system, and we understand fully what he is going through. But reform is crucial if we are to have a forward- looking and effective United Nations, a United Nations that can assist us developing countries in our search for sustainable development. All the national efforts of countries like the Marshall Islands require an international support structure that is conducive to sustainable development goals. The United Nations has a crucial and vital role, and we must maintain its leadership and coordination function. Reform of the United Nations requires that the Member States recommit themselves to their treaty obligations to negotiate in good faith and find the mutually beneficial steps that we need to take. I wish to reiterate the support which my Government has given to the proposals that have come out of the Committee on Contributions as a good starting point for financial reform. Let us take these modest first steps, and then in the next phase we can finish the reform. Reform will also have to involve the expansion of the Security Council. We have stated our support for various proposals in past general debates, and we have been involved in the working groups. Last week the Prime Minister of Fiji reiterated their proposal to give more prominence to the Pacific as a subregion of the Asian Group. This is an idea that we wholeheartedly embrace. It has captured a very important facet of the reasons why we need to have expansion — that is, to facilitate the participation of all countries in the Security Council. Our countries would feel much more comfortable with the decisions of the Security Council if we had a better opportunity to be a member. There is also a need to review the use and extent of the veto power, and whether there should in fact be any new permanent members of the Security Council. It may well be that a more equitable rotation structure would suffice. These are some of the most pressing issues before this session of the General Assembly. The connection between what occurs in the international community and the impact the results have on individual countries should be made clearer. The sustainable development process that we wish to work towards requires a great effort on the part of the Marshall Islands Government and citizenry. Similarly, the international community as a whole must be involved in charting a more democratic and cooperative future in this singular world organization. We feel that we deserve the support of the international community for our own efforts, and we pledge to work constructively with the United Nations system and donor community.   ﻿Allow me, on behalf of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic and its people, to congratulate my colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Mr. Udovenko, on his election to the high office of President of the fifty-second session of the General Assembly, and to wish him success in his endeavours. May I also express our feelings of respect for his country, which is playing an important role in resolving regional and global issues. I would also like to express our heartfelt gratitude to the previous President of the General Assembly, the representative of the friendly Malaysian people, Ambassador Razali Ismail, for his active and dynamic efforts in establishing constructive dialogue on ways to reform the United Nations. Like the entire international community, Kyrgyzstan expects genuine progress regarding the complex issue of the reform of the United Nations to come out of the present session. We are confident that the session will be able to cope with the problems facing the Organization today during this difficult and complicated period. The President and the Government of my country fully support the efforts of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, to enhance the efficiency of the United Nations, and his ability to respond sensitively and adequately to the challenges of a rapidly changing world. We are confident that a renewed United Nations will truly embody the principles and purposes proclaimed in its Charter, ensuring the harmony of the interests of all its Members in the name of peace and progress. We are ready to support all proposals that promote that goal. Regarding the reform of the Security Council, the issue of improving its methods of work is no less important than the question of enlarging its membership. Kyrgyzstan believes that these questions must be considered together. We continue to support the proposal for permanent membership in the Council for Japan and Germany. However, in our view, the permanent members of the Security Council should also include one representative each from Africa, Asia and Latin America. Mankind is now on the eve of a new millennium, and the changes taking place are altering the image of mankind and shifting the emphasis in the models for understanding and explaining our world. The collapse of a bipolar world has provided us an opportunity to focus efforts on resolving the issues of poverty, health care, education, economic development and democracy. We are all, however, still facing the threat of local and regional conflicts, international terrorism, organized crime, illegal trafficking in drugs and weapons, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the deterioration of the state of the environment. All these negative aspects of human activity threaten the global trend towards strengthening peace and progress, undermine the fragile new democracies, wear down the strength of the developing countries and generally threaten all our efforts focused on building a safer and better world. The period after the achievement of independence was decisive for Kyrgyzstan, in the context of the formation of national statehood and of new social and economic ties. The country is actively seeking ways and means to harmoniously integrate itself into the international community. Clear successes have already been achieved on this thorny path in strengthening 10 democratic institutions, radical reform of the economy of the country, improving the means for achieving inter-ethnic agreement, enhancing tolerance and ensuring human rights. The leadership of the country is also concentrating on those domestic and international issues which must be developed on a permanent and positive basis for the well- being of the population of Kyrgyzstan. Our country was the first of the newly independent States to draw up and adopt a national plan of action for environmental protection. In the light of the implementation of the decisions of the Rio Conference, Kyrgyzstan is now carrying out a country project, Capacity 21, which consists of three major components: coordination of and carrying out ecological studies, stable management of water resources and economic growth and social development. Through an edict of President Akayev, a national strategy has been adopted for sustainable human development which recognizes man, and his harmonious existence with nature, as the highest priority. Kyrgyzstan was the first country in the region to draw up a “concept for ecological security”. The Declaration adopted by the conference in Rio ranks mountainous ecological systems among those particularly vulnerable to natural and man-made impacts. It is universally recognized that peoples living in mountainous regions bear far heavier social and economic burdens than those who live in plains. In the light of these factors and circumstances and also on the basis of the decisions of the Global Environment Facility, our country held an international conference on problems of mountain ecosystems. The participants in the conference put forward a proposal to proclaim an international year of the mountains, a proposal which was actively supported by President Akayev in his message to the delegates to the mountain forum and in his letter to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. At the regular session of the Economic and Social Council in July this year, in Geneva, a resolution proclaiming International Year of Mountains, sponsored by 44 countries, was adopted by consensus. The resolution contains a request to the Secretary-General to present to the regular session of the Economic and Social Council in 1998, after consultations with Governments and with the relevant international, regional and non-governmental organizations, a report on the desirability of proclaiming the International Year of Mountains and other measures to ensure the sustainable development of mountainous countries. I would like to take this opportunity to appeal to Governments and, above all, to the other sponsors to submit the relevant information for incorporation into a complete and comprehensive report on this question by the Secretary-General. I hope the General Assembly will in turn adopt a consensus decision on this initiative. At the same time, we believe that it is possible, with support from Governments, to raise the question of drawing up a global programme of action to ensure the sustainable development of countries with mountainous regions, similar to the programme being carried out for small island developing countries. There can be no doubt that the economic gap between the rich developed countries and the developing world has widened over recent years. The poorest countries are not in a position to take off economically or socially and are continuing to lose the ties that enable them to participate in the world economy. We can assume that if this trend continues, their numbers will continue to grow, and this represents a serious threat to all human development. We need to halt that trend. In this context, in the view of the experts, the most promising approaches are to increase investments in human resources to encourage the implementation of ecologically clean and effective technologies and to reform price structures. In our view, it is precisely in these areas that United Nations activities, in new conditions, should be stepped up in order to promote economic and social progress. We support the efforts of the Secretary-General to promote stable and sustainable development. Supporting peace and security is the highest priority task of the United Nations. We place great store by the United Nations peacekeeping activities and pay due tribute to the courage and selflessness of United Nations personnel working in regions of conflict. The efforts of the United Nations Mission of Observers in Tajikistan, headed by the Special Representative of the Secretary- General, Mr. Gerd Merrem, and the Collective Peacekeeping Forces of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), culminated successfully in Moscow on 27 June 1997 with the signing of the General Agreement on the Establishment of Peace and National Accord in Tajikistan, which opened the way for the country’s transition from war to reconstruction and rehabilitation. As a representative of one of the States that is a guarantor of peace in Tajikistan, I am gratified to note my 11 country’s involvement in this event. The mediation efforts of Kyrgyzstan, and of President Akayev himself, helped bring about the important agreement in May this year that laid the way for the General Agreement, namely, the signing of the Protocol on Political Questions. However, as the events in August demonstrated, peace in Tajikistan is still extremely fragile and its survival depends, first and foremost, on the Tajik parties themselves and how faithful they are to the commitments they have made. We are convinced that our Tajik friends will be able to see this through. The prospects for peace-building in Tajikistan depend to a significant extent on the situation along the Tajik- Afghan border. The armed conflict in Afghanistan is of the greatest concern to the States of the Central Asian region; it fosters the illegal production and trafficking of drugs and is prompting the massive flow of refugees to neighbouring countries. The President and Government of Kyrgyzstan are firmly convinced that there can be only one solution to the Afghan conflict, namely, a political solution. The problem can be solved with the political will of the Afghan parties above all and assistance from neighbouring States that have an influence in the region. We have not abandoned hope regarding the organization of direct inter-Afghan negotiations under the auspices of the United Nations to discuss conditions for a ceasefire and subsequent measures to bring about national reconciliation. In November 1996, President Akayev put forward an initiative to hold these negotiations in Bishkek. Subsequently, this proposal was repeated at meetings in New York of top officials and experts on Afghanistan. Building on this initiative, in August the President of Kyrgyzstan appealed to the parties to the conflict and Heads of State and Government concerned. Kyrgyzstan, which does not share a border with Afghanistan and has no interest aside from ensuring regional security, considers the organization of inter-Afghan negotiations under United Nations auspices an integral part of its peaceful policy of good-neighbourly relations and cooperation. Kyrgyzstan is ready to play the impartial role of mediator and make its good offices available to ensure a peaceful settlement of this problem. Pursuant to its peaceful policy, Kyrgyzstan has been actively promoting in the United Nations since 1995 the idea of establishing a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia, as reflected in a number of working papers of the 1995 Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, the Preparatory Committee of the Conference of Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons to be held in the year 2000 and the Disarmament Commission. We are firmly convinced that the creation of nuclear-weapon-free zones, which is an important confidence-building measure and a positive backdrop to the disarmament process, is helping strengthen peace and security in the region and, in the final analysis, throughout the world. With the entry into force of the Treaties of Pelindaba and Bangkok, more than 1.7 billion people will be living in zones free of nuclear weapons. Together with Antarctica, this territory will cover practically the entire southern hemisphere. It is essential that we do all we can to support and promote the establishment of nuclear- weapon-free zones. Here, above all, we are hoping for the understanding and support of nuclear-weapon States. At the international conference this September on the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones, held in Tashkent, Kyrgyzstan proposed the convening of an advisory meeting of the five Central Asian States, the five nuclear-weapon States that are permanent members of the Security Council, and representatives of the United Nations to discuss practical measures to make this idea a reality. The conference approved the proposal. Kyrgyzstan is actively participating in peacekeeping activities. The Collective Peacekeeping Forces of CIS in Tajikistan includes one of our battalions. Kyrgyz military personnel in the Central Asian peacekeeping battalion took part in the joint exercises held within the framework of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) programme Partnership for Peace. Kyrgyzstan is also a member of the United Nations Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations. We are also interested in training an international peace force, military observers and civilian personnel so that they can participate in peacekeeping operations. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to ask the United Nations and the donor countries to give us as much assistance as possible in this area. In conclusion, I should like to say that this is a decisive session for the United Nations. I should like to express the hope that the interests of individual countries and regions can be reconciled and that they will not prevail over responsibility for the fate of our common Organization. On this positive note, I should like to end my statement. 12  ﻿Let me first join all the distinguished personalities who have spoken before me from this rostrum in congratulating Mr. Udovenko on his election as President of the General Assembly for the current session and wishing him all possible success in this lofty post. I would also like to convey my high appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Razali Ismail, for the excellent leadership he provided during his tenure of the previous General Assembly presidency. May I take this opportunity to warmly congratulate the Secretary General, Mr. Kofi Annan, on his election to the highest post of our global Organization. We are confident that his long experience as an international civil servant and his correct assessment and proper action in implementing the United Nations reform are guarantees of the successful crowning of our efforts to have a stronger and more efficient Organization. Before I deal with the more general questions concerning our common work and efforts in the Organization, I would like to dwell briefly on the dramatic events and developments that occurred in my country, in particular during the first half of the current year, which were also of concern to the United Nations. The Assembly is already aware of what happened in my country, during which total chaos and anarchy reigned for months. That was perhaps the biggest crisis in our modern history. Albania has a peculiar history of chronic isolation, of almost total estrangement from the rest of the world, of great potential, human and natural wealth, while being, at the same time, underdeveloped and poor. Our difficulties of growth are directly linked to the legacies of former rules and half a century of communism, of non- existent, non-functioning or malfunctioning democratic institutions, both during and after the collapse of communism and its structures, as well as with our mentality. They are linked to flaws and shortcomings in different fields, to clear tendencies to forsake freedom, to partisan intolerance, to lack of inter-party constructive cooperation, to mismanagement and corruption, to autocratic behaviour and decisions — not rare phenomena in our part of the world. It was the great complexity of these and other developments, coupled with the collapse of the get-rich- quick pyramid investment schemes, which led to broad popular frustration, disillusionment and general unrest and brought the whole country to the state of unprecedented chaos and anarchy I mentioned a moment ago. In these circumstances, the international community reacted promptly, displaying a remarkable sense of responsibility, unity and solidarity amongst its members and with my people and country, one of the Members of this Organization. The involvement of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the European Union, the United Nations Security Council’s benediction, and the well-balanced, all-out efforts and contribution of important neighbours and friends helped us to prevent further aggravation and to alleviate and gradually overcome the crisis. 18 We would like to take this opportunity to commend in the warmest possible terms the very serious commitment of the OSCE; its Chairman-in-Office, Minister Petersen, and his Personal Representative, former Austrian Chancellor, Mr. Vranitzky; the United Nations and its Security Council for their prompt response to this emergency situation through their relevant decisions, resolutions and concrete actions. Let me also thank most warmly all the troop- contributing States — France, Greece, Turkey, Spain, Romania, Denmark, Portugal, Austria, Belgium and Slovenia — which, under the excellent leadership and command of Italy, made the entire effort of the Multinational Protection Force a full success in the implementation of its mandate. Last but not least, I would wish to express my deep appreciation and thanks to the European Union and all the other international and regional organizations, the United States of America, as well as to other individual States, for the continuous support and assistance they have given and are giving my country. My people are indebted to them and to all here. This highly appreciated assistance helped us start a process of reconciliation and gradual restoration of political stability in the country. It is also a reflection of historical lessons learned in today’s efforts to establish a peaceful, democratic and united Europe, without walls and fully free, in which the integration processes should be comprehensive enough not to exclude any country, even the weakest, as Pope John Paul II said. This is the only road to ensuring that the universal principles which this global Organization and others stand for are permanently upheld and defended. The successful holding of elections in Albania on 29 June, which were considered by the international community as adequate and acceptable, can and must be the foundation for a stable democratic system. They showed the strong desire of my people for a democratic future for Albania. The coalition Government which emerged from these elections is fully determined to work with a new philosophy based on cooperation and coexistence, on sharing and, at the same time, assuming responsibilities, by the majority and the minority alike. The guiding yardstick will be making maximum use of internal capacities as the best way to ensure continuation of the spirit of understanding, the process of reconciliation, constructive cooperation, economic recovery and the overall return of normalcy to the country in the shortest possible time. This is the spirit we have decided to be guided by, as personified brilliantly by the Albanian famous worldwide, Mother Teresa. We do hope and will work to ensure that this process will bring about the necessary transformation of the country into a reliable partner that truly shares common democratic values and qualifies for its gradual but sure integration into the Euro-Atlantic structures it has the objective to achieve. Let me inform the Assembly that our main, urgent challenge remains the restoration of public order and security in the country. Therefore, we have devoted maximum and special attention to it. Lack of public order and security cannot coexist with the development of the economy and democratic values. Intensive work is already under way on the basis of short- and long-term plans. Special emphasis is being put on and we have started work towards the reorganization of the army, with the objective of gradually having a smaller, more efficient and professional force under strict civilian control, in conformity with all standards of modern armies, capable of performing its functions properly and of being a genuine partner in partnership activities. Various problems persist in the economic field, where we have witnessed a quasi-paralysis of life and the deterioration of all micro- and macroeconomic indices. In cooperation with and the assistance of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank, we hope we will be able to deal successfully with the main economic and social priorities. We have already started work in this direction, for both the emergency situation and the mid-long-term perspective. Albania is determined to go ahead with the democratization processes in general — the rebuilding, establishment and proper functioning of democratic institutions to ensure the true entrenchment of the rule of law in all its dimensions. All of these issues were discussed in Rome at the preparatory meeting for the upcoming ministerial meeting to be held in that city and the donors conference set to take place in Brussels next month. We are prepared for these meetings to begin the implementation of what we have achieved and will agree upon, in close cooperation with the relevant organizations. On behalf of my Government, I should like to pay tribute to all of the international organizations and financial institutions, from the United Nations and its specialized agencies to the European and Euro-Atlantic bodies as well as individual countries, which have since the beginning of this process shown unstinting interest 19 and commitment in working in their respective areas of responsibility. The main objective of my Government’s foreign policy is directly to contribute to the enhancement of peace, security and stability in our region and in Europe through a gradual integration into all relevant Euro-Atlantic structures. Albania’s past, present and future are closely linked, in a variety of ways, with those of our neighbours. Like all neighbours, we share not only common borders but also, we hope, common interests and values and a common future. This requires our full participation in the European integration processes, in a common Europe united by these values and not characterized by friction and confrontation. Relations with neighbouring countries and peace and stability in the region are of paramount importance for us. We will continue to work constructively and openly to solve all the pending problems that involve vital national interests for Albania and represent a major concern for the international community. One such question is that of Kosovo. Inter-linked issues — good relations with neighbouring countries, peace and stability in the region, and the situation in Kosovo and its just solution — should be pursued in a complementary manner, with none of them opposing, undercutting or jeopardizing the others. I should like to say a few words about the situation in Kosovo and how we see its future, because unless this question is dealt with properly and settled accordingly, this serious issue could continue to threaten peace and regional stability. Kosovo has been on the agenda of the international community, and in particular of the General Assembly and the Security Council, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the European Union, for years now. Unfortunately, the situation there remains the same, and we are not sure how long the status quo can be maintained. Police violence and brutality, massive repression and gross violations of human, political and national rights — which we strongly condemn — continue unabated in Kosovo. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has given no real, concrete sign of changing its attitude, despite three General Assembly resolutions, one Security Council resolution and scores of OSCE decisions and statements. We appeal to this global Organization, to European organizations and structures, to those who made a major contribution to ending the war in Bosnia through the Dayton accords and to all those who have the power and the political will to continue to exert the necessary pressure to direct this major pending issue in the Balkans onto the path of negotiation, with proper international mediation, with a view to a just, peaceful and democratic solution acceptable to all. Perhaps a mini Dayton-type conference aimed at solving all the remaining problems of the former Yugoslavia, including and focusing on the Kosovo issue, might do the job by Europeanizing our region, a process that would have to start with a full-scale reactivation of Balkan cooperation. The General Assembly will hopefully be able to send another message to all those concerned, in particular the people of Kosovo, that the international community continues to be deeply concerned and seized of the matter, that it supports and encourages peaceful approaches, and that it wants to see positive changes in the right direction. My country fully supports all the efforts under way to ensure the full and unequivocal implementation of all the Dayton accords. It considers attempts to circumvent or avoid certain Dayton provisions as dangerous, with implications that could go beyond its scope. We maintain that there is no alternative to the full implementation of Dayton. The Albanian Government is strongly committed to promoting and actively taking part in regional cooperation, knowing that democratization, market economy prosperity, good-neighbourly relations and constructive cooperation are prerequisites for the secure environment and prosperity that our region deserves, as well as for the realization of our country’s aspirations to a gradual but full European integration. Our vision for our region’s future is a Schengen-type approach. We believe that regional initiatives such as the Conference on European Stability, Security and Cooperation in South- Eastern Europe, the Black Sea Economic Cooperation and initiatives of the Commonwealth of Independent States, inter alia, are worthy steps that are also contributing to this end. Albania is highly appreciative of the efforts, the assistance and the contribution of the Organization with respect to conflict resolution in various parts of the globe. We sincerely wish for peace to be established and reign in all those parts of the earth that are still being shaken by internal or other conflicts. We hope that the role and contribution of the Organization, with its reform programme fully implemented, will be further enhanced in this direction. All Member States should do their 20 utmost to achieve this common objective. By so doing, the lead members will be able to provide better guidance through the United Nations, and all of us will work better together. Albania is fully and unreservedly supportive of the Middle East peace process and of the intensive and ongoing efforts to bring that process back on track. Mutual confidence must somehow be restored, as it is the only alternative to ensuring continued progress in the peace negotiations. We are confident that the unsparing and concerted efforts under way will yield the awaited results. We participated in and followed with great interest the nineteenth special session of the General Assembly on the environment and consider it to have made an important contribution to resolving the environmental problems affecting the earth. Similarly, Albania considers the special session on the fight against drugs and related activities, due to be held next year, as another very significant contribution to promoting and further strengthening international cooperation in this highly sensitive field. The open debate in the Security Council last May on humanitarian crises and the protection of the civilian population was another indication that there is great concern, preparedness and political will to deal with these conflicts at an early stage, before they develop into real crises, thus playing a major preventive role. We all look forward to this. Prevention is the best medicine, because a problem can become very costly to treat and be hard to cure. Albania has tried its best to make a modest contribution to the activities of the United Nations, including the significant fact that we are on the list of countries ready to contribute to United Nations peacekeeping operations. Our objective in future is to play an even more active role in this direction, as well as in operations of an international humanitarian character. One such objective has already been included in our platform for the reorganization and restructuring of the army. We intend to play a more active role in the activities of main bodies of the Organization, including the Economic and Social Council, the Commission on Human Rights, the United Nations International Drug Control Programme, the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice and the leading bodies of the International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations Industrial Development Organization and others. Individual concerns should be treated as, and should become, the concerns of all. In addressing individual concerns, participation and contribution by all members of the community of States, each within its capacity and making available all possible resources, even if modest, will make the Organization more comprehensive and substantive, and its role genuinely more effective. The Organization has started a process aimed at achieving the overall reform of the Organization and its system in order to make the United Nations and its role truly more effective and capable of coping with the new challenges and dynamics of the ever-changing world reality. To do so, all Members should live up to their obligations. We also feel the need for greater efforts to enhance efficiency, which would lead to an enhanced role for the Organization. Reform should not take place for reform’s sake. We believe it should be our duty to define our needs in order to have reforms that are not only structural. We must ensure that money is saved not as a one-shot exercise but as a long-lasting process with its accent on transfers for the economic development of those who are most in need. We support action in this direction. We have taken very serious note of the work of the Secretary-General for United Nations reform in general, and of his proposals for the reform of the Secretariat. We appreciate his proposals and believe they represent the right approach. The reform of the Security Council is one of the most sensitive issues and is part of the reform package. It took our Organization almost the half century of its existence to come to this point. No one can say for sure when, if at all, the Security Council will be reformed again in the future. Therefore, there might still be some work to be done in this direction, without necessarily making haste or getting caught up in endless discussions. With a clear objective, we will be able to show the maturity necessary to give the Council the right, balanced, flexible, democratic representation capable of successfully dealing with the challenges and objective of the next century: to live in peace and harmony; to live in and leave to our children a better world.  ﻿In recent years we have, happily, drawn closer to the ideals enshrined in the preamble of our Charter. We have taken substantial strides towards the ideal of peace and security; strengthened and broadened the observance of human rights; enhanced and developed international law and widened the scope of international penal law, in particular; and laid the foundations for greater responsibility by States in the advancement of social progress. However, even as we draw closer to these goals, we see rapid changes in our countries and in the world which present a new and complex challenge for the Organization. The challenge begins when we note that the benefits of globalization fall short of being able to alleviate the situation of extreme deprivation from which more than a quarter of the world’s population suffers. Similarly, we see more clearly new threats to security and development, such as drug trafficking, terrorism, corruption, and irresponsible assaults upon the environment. The process of reform undertaken by Secretary- General Kofi Annan must first and foremost identify what is the essential role of the United Nations. We believe that it unquestionably continues to be the maintenance of 14 international peace and security. In order to achieve this we must bring about a world where sustainable development is possible and where the norm is the rule of law; respect for human rights, including respect for the rights of indigenous peoples and minorities; and non-discrimination by reason of race, religion, gender or anything else. The United Nations, through the General Assembly, must continue to be in the vanguard on all these issues, playing the role which in the past enabled it to overcome the scepticism of the times and successfully to combat colonialism, champion nuclear non-proliferation, and, even more important, alert the world to the grave risks of environmental pollution, marginalization, poverty and that new form of moral pollution: corruption. Although, on the whole, reform has aroused feelings of hope, we must overcome the present climate of scepticism and support the Secretary-General. In a world which today is increasingly marked by globalization, the autonomy which formerly characterized State action has been considerably limited. This obliges us to reassess the classical concept of sovereignty, by which I mean flexible and dynamic — not static — reassessment. Argentina has participated with conviction in the process of reform and commits itself to continue to work actively in its implementation. The question of the Middle East is going through a difficult phase. The peace process begun in Madrid in 1991 must necessarily continue, with fulfilment of the Oslo and Washington Agreements. We fully support the determined efforts made some days ago by the Secretary of State of the United States of America, Mrs. Madeleine Albright. We are certain that time will show that those efforts were timely and well-directed. Our country likewise firmly supports the system-wide Programme of Action for the economic recovery and development of Africa, as well as the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative for Africa launched by the Secretary-General in March 1996. We attach particular importance to the mobilization of financial resources for the African continent, and we note with satisfaction the first signs of renewed activity in some very important areas of that continent. With regard to international security, we welcome the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, which we hope shortly to ratify. Likewise, we extend our unqualified support to the Ottawa process to ban anti- personnel landmines. Our commitment to this noble initiative was made manifest in 1994, when we offered to assume the task of removing the mines laid in the Malvinas Islands. We laid those mines ourselves and thus felt a sense of responsibility. We hope that we shall soon be able to achieve the agreement that will allow us to complete that task. A lasting peace requires United Nations contingents endowed with the capacity to deploy rapidly and effectively. Accordingly, Argentina, together with other countries, is working to improve mechanisms of deployment. In this context, allow me also to recall that, next year, Argentina will mark the fortieth anniversary of its participation in peacekeeping operations. That is a great many years. The magnitude of the adverse consequences for individuals of current conflicts requires us to exert our utmost efforts with regard to humanitarian assistance. Such assistance constitutes an indispensable element in peace-building. Accordingly, the “White Helmets” initiative has made possible a growing mobilization of human and financial resources, bringing about a healthy reassessment of humanitarian assistance criteria and procedures. In order to consolidate a lasting peace, we must not allow impunity to prevail for crimes that offend the conscience of humankind. The creation by the Security Council of tribunals for the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda is a recognition that justice and law are inseparable components of the system of collective security. Argentina firmly supports the creation of a general and permanent international criminal court. We trust that the Rome conference in 1998 will make possible the realization of this initiative. Let me also say that the Argentine Government firmly intends to pursue its struggle against the abusive consumption of psychotropic substances and illicit narcotics trafficking, as well as related offenses. In the subregional context, we are proud that the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR) continues to grow in both the commercial and political spheres, which are interrelated, and to contribute to advancing integration in the hemisphere. MERCOSUR is a clear case of open regionalism. It has not resulted in the distortion or diversion of trade but has, rather, generated trade both between the countries of the region and with countries outside it. Argentina, jointly with its other 15 MERCOSUR partners, is active in the formation of the American Free Trade Area (AFTA). MERCOSUR has introduced a proposal for negotiation of AFTA based on a phased approach. With regard to regional security, Argentina has been a leader in reducing residual tensions in the area. It has contributed to the attainment of such cherished goals for the nations of South America as the resolution of border problems in a climate of confidence with our neighbours and by promoting common positions in support of strengthened democracy and political and economic stability. Accordingly, we have, through the Mechanism for Consultation and Concerted Political Action of the Rio Group, been promoting the Declaration on the Defence of Democracy, to which we attach great importance as one more means to advance peace and security — goals that can be achieved only with representative democracy. We also welcome the inclusion of Bolivia and Chile as full members of the Mercosur Mechanism for Consultation and Concerted Political Action. With our neighbours, friends and partners, we are pursuing a deepening of the dialogue on security and defence. We are adjusting it to the new international and regional reality, convinced that security is enhanced through integration. Indeed, the basis of security in the Southern Cone is the friendship and cordiality of its countries. In this context, military cooperation has increased, with positive results for transparency and mutual confidence-building. As a result of these efforts, Latin America today can point with pride to the peace and harmony that prevails among its States. There remains, however, in the South Atlantic, an important unresolved issue: the question of the Malvinas Islands. I reaffirm once again the legitimate rights of the Republic of Argentina in that dispute and its appeal for a peaceful and lasting solution. In keeping with the repeated appeals of this General Assembly and the Decolonization Committee, we believe that it is imperative to resume negotiations on all aspects of the question of the Malvinas Islands. No Member of the United Nations should evade the obligation to resolve a dispute by peaceful means as laid down in the Charter of this Organization. We call for the parties to sit at the negotiating table and discuss all the relevant issues. We have made too much progress with the United Kingdom to avoid addressing this issue. We have made very important strides in building our bilateral relationship with the United Kingdom, which are reflected in heightened economic, commercial and cultural relations between the two countries. We have recreated a climate of mutual trust in the South-West Atlantic, which enables us today to cooperate in the conservation of living resources and in the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. Undoubtedly, these activities would gain substantial impetus from the resumption of direct links between the mainland and the islands, which have proven to be most beneficial in the past. Nothing, however, replaces human contact between individuals. I trust that the new British Government will heed our appeal and that of the international community to pursue a dialogue without preconditions with a view to finding a definitive solution to the sovereignty dispute over the Malvinas Islands. To the islanders, I once again reiterate our firm commitment to fully respect their way of life, culture and institutions, as stated in our national Constitution. The Decolonization Committee, which has historically played a decisive role in this sphere, has shown itself to be the appropriate forum to continue addressing the situation of the Malvinas Islands and other dependent territories. Accordingly, the six countries that make up the MERCOSUR Mechanism for Consultation and Concerted Political Action have reaffirmed the importance of the work of the Committee of 24 on the decolonization process, which has not yet been completed. We trust that the Committee will maintain its effectiveness to the full. Another fundamental issue is the composition of the Security Council, which in 1945 was consonant with the reality prevailing at the end of the Second World War. That is no longer the case, however. On the eve of the twenty-first century, we should not design a model that only adds new discriminations to those we have inherited. That would be a conceptual mistake. Argentina, while understanding the position of each Member State on this matter, is of the view that there is not yet a general agreement concerning the increase in the number of permanent members. We all agree that the reform of the Security Council should make it a more democratic and representative body. To reach that goal, each region will need to arrive at a compromise without being pressured or rushed. In the case of Latin America and the Caribbean, the Summit of Heads of State of the Rio Group has agreed that the region itself will have to decide how to fill the 16 seats assigned to it. Argentina is of the view that an open- ended mechanism of rotation should be established that will enable the participation of all those States that have shown their commitment to and respect for the Charter. This would avoid discrimination against those States that, like Argentina, bear greater financial responsibilities. In short, the Argentine position is aimed solely at promoting the ample participation of all States of the region, without any exclusion whatsoever. I must say, however, that there is more to this matter than the increase in the number of members. Methods of work and procedures also need to be updated. In this context, I concur with the comments made by the representative of New Zealand. It is our firm conviction that reform of the United Nations must necessarily be built upon two fundamental pillars. First, it must respond to the requirements and expectations of the international community. Secondly, it must reflect a general agreement among the Member States. It is only in this way that the Organization will retain its relevance in the twenty-first century. ﻿May I first of all congratulate you, Mr. President, most sincerely on your outstanding election to the presidency of the United Nations General Assembly at its fifty-second session. I have no doubt that thanks to your eminent qualities and your rich experience you will carry out remarkably well the mission entrusted to you. You may be assured of the complete support of the delegation of Mali. I also want to express our appreciation and thanks to your predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail, for the important contribution he made to the last session as President of the General Assembly. To the new Secretary-General of the Organization, Mr. Kofi Annan, I would like to express my fraternal and warmest congratulations. His election on 17 December 1996 was a tribute to the eminent qualities of a man who has devoted his life to the service of the United Nations. While wishing him every success in the difficult mission conferred upon him, it is my firm conviction that he will do honour to his continent, Africa, in guiding our Organization towards the next millennium. As this fifty-second session of the General Assembly opens this year, the United Nations is at a crossroads. Two years ago in this very Hall, on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, 128 Heads of State or Government forcefully reaffirmed their faith in the United Nations in its principles and its objectives. They unanimously appealed for profound reflection on the role and resources of the world Organization so that it might be given the human, material and financial capacities that are vital to its mission, and so that it might be able to enter the twenty-first century with determination and professionalism. This appeal was not in vain. Under the dynamic leadership of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, whose courage and lucidity I wish to commend, our Organization has today embarked on an ambitious programme of reform. On 14 July last Mr. Kofi Annan, continuing the work of his predecessor, submitted to the General Assembly his report on the reform of the United Nations. Like other Member States, Mali is now considering the proposals contained in that report and will without delay submit its observations thereon. My delegation is delighted at the political will expressed by all to initiate the appropriate reforms in order to make our Organization better able to respond to the needs of our day and to the aspirations of the peoples for which it was created. While on the topic of reform, I cannot gloss over the substantial progress made by Member States in the different working groups of the General Assembly. 1997 will mark the crowning of sustained efforts, including the fulfilment of the mandates given to the Working Groups on, respectively, the Agenda for Development and the strengthening of the United Nations system. The unanimous adoption by the General Assembly of the documents that endorsed the often difficult and painstaking deliberations of these two Working Groups 11 eloquently reflects our shared will to succeed, by consensus, in laying the groundwork for the restructuring and modernization of our Organization in the priority fields of development and economic cooperation. As for the reform of the Security Council, the high- level Working Group established to study this issue has made considerable progress, although concrete measures have not been adopted on such fundamental items as the expansion and composition of the Council, and thee use of the right of veto. However, I welcome the many constructive and often complementary proposals that have enriched the debates this year. I am convinced that by redoubling our efforts we will be able to benefit from the momentum that has been created, and that we will succeed in restructuring and modernizing the Security Council by making it more democratic and credible as well as more legitimate and transparent. The maintenance of peace and security, we know, requires the prevention, management and settlement of crises — of which there unfortunately are still a large number, often pernicious. These crises are currently sources of grave concern to the entire international community, and particularly to Africa, where some countries continue to be afflicted by multifaceted conflicts. In this respect, it is gratifying to note that significant advances have been made here and there towards the restoration of peace and security. My delegation is gratified at the dynamic process that led on 20 July to the holding of general, free and credible elections in Liberia, marking the end of a long and brutal civil war and the establishment in that country of democratic institutions. This victory, which is above all that of the people of Liberia themselves, must be welcomed as a successful example of the settlement of a regional conflict and should serve as a source of inspiration for the settlement of other crises. Mali, which has played an active role in the settlement of the Liberian crisis in both the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and its Monitoring Group (ECOMOG), would like to recall here that assistance for the reconstruction of Liberia is the only means of consolidating the peace won at such cost. The results obtained by the Inter-African Mission to Monitor the Implementation of the Bangui Agreements are a good example of the virtues of direct dialogue and of international mediation. My country welcomes the positive evolution of the crisis in the Central African Republic as a result of the commendable efforts of the International Mediation Committee established by the Nineteenth Summit Meeting of Heads of State and Government of France and Africa. As regards Western Sahara, my delegation is pleased with the progress achieved at the end of the fourth round of private contacts on the implementation of the United Nations Settlement Plan, with a view to the organization of a referendum for self-determination. Conversely, the existence of other centres of tension and breaches of democratic order are of grave concern. This is the case in Angola, where the delaying tactics of the União Nacional para a Independência Total de Angola (UNITA) are putting a severe strain on the peace process under way. My country supports without reservation the measures recently decided upon by the Security Council relating to this party to the conflict. Likewise, in Sierra Leone, the situation is extremely confused because of the obstinacy of the leaders of the military coup d’état in holding on to power in spite of the pressure exerted by the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity and, more particularly the Economic Community of West African States whose select ministerial committee has courageously and selflessly undertaken difficult negotiations in order to achieve the re-establishment of constitutional order with the return of the democratically elected president. My country, which is a member of the International Mediation Committee in the Republic of the Congo, is gravely concerned by the situation of widespread civil war prevailing in that country. Once again, we appeal to the sense of responsibility of the parties and ask them to engage resolutely and very quickly in a political settlement of the crisis so that the mediation process can be brought to a successful conclusion. This crucial moment for Africa is equally crucial for the Middle East, where the dynamic of peace that began with the Madrid Conference is increasingly being called into question by the recent serious events. This is the time and place to call urgently on the co-sponsors of the peace process and the international community as a whole to take further initiatives to safeguard the peace process, inter alia by persuading the parties to resume the negotiations as a matter of urgency with a view to the application of the agreements that have been concluded. 12 My country, Mali, also remains concerned by the persistence of the sanctions against Member States of our Organization, in particular the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and by the suffering the sanctions cause for the peoples of these countries. For more than 50 years, the realization of the ideal of disarmament has been at the centre of our constant concern to build a system of collective security, free of weapons of mass destruction. From this viewpoint significant progress has been made towards, in particular, the reduction and ultimate elimination of nuclear arsenals. In this respect, Mali welcomes the entry into force on 29 April 1997 of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction. Nevertheless, the objective of general and complete disarmament has still to be achieved. On the basis of this conviction, Mali has demonstrated its commitment to this goal by taking concrete initiatives at the international, regional and national levels. Evidence of this is the resolution initiated by my country in 1994 and co-sponsored by about 20 Member States, regarding “Assistance to States for curbing the illicit traffic in small arms and collecting them”. This initiative by Mali, which contributed to initiating the now well-known concept of “microdisarmament” within our Organization, is aimed at drawing the attention of the international community to the disastrous consequences of small arms, particularly in the developing countries where, as we know, they play a large part in fuelling conflicts. All this emphasizes how important it is urgently to support the efforts of the countries of the Saharo-Sahelian subregion in order to stem the phenomenon of the proliferation of small arms, especially through effective control of borders and the review of legal instruments regarding the bearing of arms. Along the same lines, from 24 to 28 March 1997, the Government of Mali organized, together with the United Nations Department of Political Affairs, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), a “Week of Peace” to commemorate the first anniversary of the “Flame of Peace”. The international forum, held on that occasion, which brought together the representatives of the countries of the subregion and of the institutions and bodies to which I have just referred, gave an opportunity to analyse the factors that led to the restoration of peace in the northern regions of Mali and to identify ways and means of ensuring lasting peace and of promoting a real culture of peace. I would like here to echo the fervent appeal made at that forum for good governance, which favours participation over exclusion and dialogue over confrontation, and which assures respect for democratic principles and human rights. I also wish, from this rostrum, to make an appeal to the international community to give its full support to the proposal for a moratorium on the import, export and production of light weapons that was formulated during the consultations held at the same time as the “Week of Peace”. In addition to the countries of the West African subregion, these consultations brought together representatives of the United Nations, OAU, the ECOWAS/Togo agreement on non-aggression and defence assistance (ANAD), and our development partners. Furthermore, the conflicts in recent years have shown that conventional weapons can also cause mass destruction. For that reason my country welcomed the adoption on 18 September 1997 of the Convention on the total ban of anti-personnel mines, and supports the international efforts, including the Ottawa process, to achieve the total elimination of anti-personnel mines at the global level. The values of peace, freedom and economic and social justice which inspired the founding fathers of the United Nations must remain today, more than ever, the foundations of the joint action incumbent on us in the quest for a decent life for everyone. In this respect, we must, together and in a united way, seek concerted solutions to the persistent problems of underdevelopment. Thus, from New York in 1990, with the World Summit for Children, to Rome in 1996 with the World Food Summit, the great international conferences of the decade have contributed remarkably to the preparation of a new design for human society at the dawning of the third millennium. The paradigm of sustainable development, based on economic growth that is sustained, socially equitable and ecologically viable, constitutes the common denominator on which the international community now agrees in order to give new direction to the collective search for the economic and social well- being of our peoples. The mixed results of last June’s special session of the General Assembly devoted to an overall evaluation of the implementation of Agenda 21 are a sharp reminder of the vital need to think for our 13 world globally and act collectively to meet the challenges confronting our planet. Regardless of the angle from which we approach them, the problems at the end of this century cannot be resolved except through concerted and integrated action — action capable of managing harmoniously the upheavals accompanying this changing period of history. The consensus achieved in the Agenda for Development shows our shared faith in the virtues of a new global partnership for development, based on the imperative of interdependence and on mutually beneficial action. Since the conceptual framework has been defined and accepted by all, it is now time — and high time — to move to action through a rational mobilization of resources in keeping with the generous goals formulated in the Agenda for Development. The settlement of the debt crisis, just remuneration for commodities, the renunciation of trade barriers and an increase in official development assistance — this is essentially the direction that needs to be taken in order to build a world that is more accommodating to all, so true is it that our global village cannot be built in a lasting way if the majority of its members are excluded. The fight against poverty in this context has absolute priority, because it is simply unacceptable at the dawning of the third millennium that millions of men and women throughout the world should continue to lack the minimal conditions for a decent life. The aspiration of peoples for a better life is a legitimate quest which cannot be ignored. As Mali sees it, any work towards sustainable development is above all a national responsibility, through the effective definition and application of sound macroeconomic policies, based on transparency, the pre- eminent rule of law, the practice of democracy, respect for human rights, social justice, and the participation of all in the effort of national development. For my country, this is the surest path to follow in our quest for the shared ideal assigned to us by the United Nations Charter: “to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom”. We are on the eve of a new millennium, which will see the emergence of new challenges and new threats, but also of great dreams and hopes for humankind. As responsible leaders of our States, we have an obligation to seek ways and means to meet these challenges. But we also need to guide in the right direction the aspirations of our peoples to live in peace, liberty, progress and active solidarity. Fifty-two years ago the founding fathers of our Organization cleared the way for us to attain these noble objectives, which are still relevant. If we apply the terms of the Charter, we will be able to respond to particular uncertainties and put an end to the climate of doubt, fear and suspicion that characterizes present day international relations. We must also agree to do more and to do better in our quest for a better future for the human race. We believe in the United Nations as the institution to help us achieve this. The President of the Republic of Mali, His Excellency Mr. Alpha Oumar Konaré, is convinced that a restructured, modernized United Nations, endowed with the essential capacity to act, can help to resolve our disputes, ensure more orderly management of world affairs and eliminate the injustice, disparity and egoism that threaten humankind. That is why my country, Mali, will continue to work with enthusiasm and determination to ensure the emergence of a United Nations that is truly united in its diversity, at peace with itself and resolutely committed to the service of all peoples. ﻿I would like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session. It is a principle of today’s world that political legitimacy and democracy constitute the most civilized form of government. The United Nations must reflect this increasingly universal principle by supporting the efforts being made by the Governments and peoples of the world that are struggling to democratize their countries. After a decade of totalitarianism and struggles of resistance, the Nicaraguan people have chosen democracy as our system of government. Proof of this is the elections that were successfully conducted in 1990 and in 1996, when I was elected President of Nicaragua and undertook to build a state of law and to lead my country along the path of democracy, reconciliation with justice and the institutionalization of the State. We know that this is a difficult challenge. The Government over which I preside has made the commitment to achieve economic and social development that will make it possible to meet the basic needs of the population and to guarantee sustainable growth in the medium and long term. We are aware of the need to promote a national commitment to democracy. To that end we have initiated an open, sincere national dialogue with different sectors of society, including the political parties, civil society and non-governmental organizations, so that together we can find the key elements for building a democratic political culture. My Government is pleased to support the hemisphere’s efforts, as coordinator of item 18 on the agenda of the Summit of the Americas, “Strengthening of the role of women in society”. The Summit meeting wished to emphasize that the exclusion of women from the tasks and benefits of development is a big obstacle to the attainment of growth and democracy. The entire world is in a process of change, and we believe that the United Nations system cannot remain on the sidelines. Nicaragua congratulates the Secretary- General on his dynamic vision, and we thank him for his report entitled “Renewing the United Nations: A Programme for Reform” (A/51/950). Nicaragua has benefited from many programmes of the system and its agencies, programmes which have had an impact on its economy, health, social well-being, education and employment, to name just a few areas, and ultimately on democratic development. My Government considers the time has come for Member States to approve a greater leadership role for the Secretary-General. We are glad that the Secretary-General attaches special importance to peace processes and the need to improve the system’s capacity to combat drug trafficking and terrorism. We support programmes to reduce arms and enhance human rights, as well as to strengthen the ability to respond in the best possible way to emergency situations. Likewise, my Government considers that development programmes and programmes for strengthening democratic systems must not be affected. Our democracies still have enemies. A rapid response capacity is essential today. The Security Council’s present structure and its Members’ prerogatives belong to a bygone era. The days of the cold war and a bipolar world are a thing of the past, and the number of States making up the international community has increased substantially since 1965, the date of the last enlargement of the Council. It is therefore clear that its present structure is neither equitable nor democratic. The days of armed conflict in the Central American region are over. In this very forum, all the nations of the world have declared Central America to be a region of peace, democracy and development. Fortunately, we Central Americans are daily getting closer to real and effective integration. We are aware of the urgent need to bring about profound change in our institutional system in such a way as to respect our sovereignty, and laws, and the different characteristics of each nation, while allowing us to face effectively the challenges of the next century and to blend successfully into global flows of trade and investment. Deeply resolved, the Central American Presidents have agreed to initiate a process of gradually establishing the Central American union. To that effect, we announced in Managua on 2 September the decision to designate a high- level group to prepare the bases and the conditions for constituting the union. We ask the international community to support this process unreservedly, for we consider it invaluable for the strengthening of our democracy and the well-being of our peoples. We Central Americans do not want the destructive consequences of war experienced in the 1980s to continue into the twenty-first century. We still face humanitarian and economic problems because of the damage caused by the presence of landmines and other explosive devices, which have caused irreparable losses to the civilian population and the national economy. The United Nations has seen profound changes in world events, including great transformations in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. We are pleased to see how democracy, the ideas of civil society and respect for fundamental human rights are becoming predominant characteristics of today’s world. I therefore note with great regret that the 21.5 million people who live in the Republic of China are not represented in this great Assembly. What is going on, Mr. President? Everyone knows that the Republic of China signed the United Nations Charter in 1945. Domestically, it maintains government structures guaranteeing its people the exercise of their fundamental rights and freedoms. In no international forum dealing with this subject has the Government of the Republic of China been described as a violator of inalienable rights. The countries of South-East Asia have seen how the economy and democratic development of the Republic of China have been significant factors in the region’s stability. The international community can attest to the fact that the Republic of China bases its attitude on the principles that govern the United Nations Charter, particularly in its peace-loving nature and its capacity to make a positive response to the needs of the international community. Bearing these facts in mind, I appeal to the Assembly to amend resolution 2758 (XXVI), which excludes the Republic of China from the United Nations. We ought to maintain the principle of universality through the equal participation of all the States of the world. The Government of Nicaragua considers that the Republic of China should enjoy equal opportunity to participate in the United Nations and its specialized agencies. We cannot forget the right of those who freely chose to live in and to build the Republic of China and who want their country to be recognized with full and effective participation at the heart of this Organization. 2 We have a broad programme of work, which will contribute not only to overcoming the obstacles that peoples and Governments face in achieving their goal of maintaining and implementing fundamental values of development, social well-being and justice, but also to preparing for our entry into the twenty-first century with a renewed and strengthened world Organization that can assist Governments to attain the well-being of their peoples. On behalf of the Nicaraguan people, I ask God to bless the United Nations and all the peoples of the world.   ﻿I congratulate you, Mr. President, on assuming your responsible office. Major decisions are to be taken at this session and I wish you good fortune in your conduct of the proceedings. I wish to thank Ambassador Razali for his exceptional commitment. He has made us all aware of the great responsibility we carry during this phase of reform. The Secretary-General, through the impressive manner in which he presented his reform proposals, has re-emphasized that responsibility. Nowhere else are we so acutely aware as at the United Nations General Assembly that, regardless of our origins or the colour of our skin, we have a common destiny and that we all, North and South, the small countries and the big countries, need one another. Millions of people all over the world, especially our youth, ask themselves whether we politicians and delegates from 185 nations have drawn the right conclusions from this; whether we can summon the political will for joint action to improve their security, to give them better opportunities in life, and to safeguard their rights, or whether we will go on wasting and destroying the natural sources of human life at their 10 expense. Those of us with adult children know how sceptical their generation have become about the capabilities of the governing class. That is good reason for all of us to stop, think and take action, and to do so here and now. The world about which we are talking here today and the world which we participate in shaping is not ours alone. We have to preserve it for future generations as well. And this we can achieve only through a united effort. For we are only one world community that has to survive together. There is only one boat for all, our vulnerable blue planet, and there is only one common future, good or bad. That is the reality we face as we cross over into the third millennium and it is the reason why policies deriving from a sense of responsibility are not utopian. Indeed, in our age they are the only realistic approach. The world organization’s programmes and funds, that is to say, those of the United Nation’s Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Population Fund and the World Food Programme, together dispense more than $4.6 billion a year in the form of economic and social aid. That comes to about 80 cents for every person on earth. By contrast, in 1994 the world’s Governments spent about $767 billion on arms, which was roughly $134 per person. This gross disproportion is intolerable. I believe that we must all look beyond the rim of our own national interests. There is no more time to lose. We cannot simply come here, make and listen to speeches and then return to business as usual for another 12 months. We have a duty and responsibility to leave our children and grandchildren a world which is worthy of humankind. And that means doing something about it now, today. We must protect the earth’s atmosphere by reducing greenhouse-gas emissions. We must ban lethal anti-personnel landmines by joining in the Ottawa process. We cannot accept that we have hundreds of millions of anti-personnel landmines still in place in the ground of many, many countries in this world of ours. We must halt the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and we must streamline the United Nations Organization. But above all, we must pay our contributions on time and in full. These are the criteria which show whether we are living up to our responsibility. The opportunity for effective action is there. Despite carping criticism, international cooperation within the United Nations framework is working. Malnutrition and undernourishment have been reduced by a third since 1960 and illiteracy by 50 per cent. Most of the credit for this, no doubt, goes to the United Nations. Infant mortality has been halved in the same period — a great achievement by UNICEF. Between 1990 and 1995 the world population increased by 1.48 per cent, considerably less than the 1.72 per cent growth between 1985 and 1990. This nourishes the hope that we have got over the hump of the population explosion. Again, this is a big achievement largely attributable to the work of the United Nations Population Fund. Much, I am pleased to note, has also been done to improve the situation of women. This is important because with all the tremendous social challenges we face, the success of our efforts depends heavily on them. They are the natural advocates of future generations. That is why one of our main objectives still is to ensure they have equal rights, not only on paper but also in practice. The World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna, the Earth Summit in Rio, the International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo, the Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen and the World Conference on Women in Beijing have demonstrated that the strategies for creating a better and more equitable world are in place. What is missing is the political will to put them into effect. We must learn to give common interests priority over national interests. We must start to think not only of the present but of the future as well. The first step — and I think it cannot be underlined enough — is to reform and strengthen the Organization which embodies all these objectives: the United Nations, our United Nations. There has been enough talk. Time is running out. At this fifty-second session, the General Assembly must make decisions. The backlog of reforms must be dealt with during this session. True, Governments and politicians don’t possess a magic wand with which to put the world in order. And I readily admit, as a politician, that it is disappointing to discover how relatively little we ourselves can change, even in high positions, and I take it that it is the same with the others present here. But that does not absolve us from the responsibility to do everything in our power to bring about necessary change and progress. 11 There is more than enough to be done. The world is still profoundly unjust. From the moment of their birth, millions of people have hardly any chance of leading a life in conditions worthy of the human race. According to UNICEF, more than 20 million children all over the world are on the move. About 300,000 children were killed in the Rwanda massacres. As a result of the 17-year-old war in Afghanistan, another 280,000 or so have died from undernourishment and disease. The civil war in Cambodia has made some 350,000 children orphans. Every 90 minutes a child is maimed by a landmine. Yet it is on our children, the weakest members of any society, be it in the North or the South of our planet, that the world’s future and hopes depend. They are the weakest members of any society. They are little people who need big rights. How much worse off would they be if there were no United Nations? What would become of the world’s conscience? Who would demand consideration for and solidarity with such children if we allowed this Organization to decline? At this moment about 25,000 soldiers, civilians and members of non-governmental organizations are serving the cause of peace around the globe. All of them deserve our thanks and appreciation. A week ago today five Germans, including the Deputy of the High Representative, Ambassador Gerd Wagner, five Americans, a Briton and a Pole lost their lives in a tragic accident. We mourn their loss and share the grief of their families. Their deaths are an admonition to redouble our efforts for peace. They wanted to help people in need and in doing so brought a ray of hope to Bosnia and to the people working on the ground. That hope must not be extinguished. Last Saturday I attended the memorial service in Sarajevo. I have visited the region more than once, and the inner conflict among the people was again obvious. As before, the main obstacles to lasting peace in the region are hatred and fear among the various ethnic groups. On the other hand, most Bosnians, in spite of the terrible events of recent years, realize there is no future for them and their children if the hatred and fear are not overcome, despite all the terrible things that have been done, despite the rapes and the “ethnic cleansing”. That is why I am speaking out here today — to appeal to all political leaders in Bosnia to change their attitude and to mount a reconciliation campaign. The international community has provided assistance, making millions of dollars available. We have done a lot. We are very committed on the ground, and we want to see the results of what we have done. We believe that those who live in security and peace have an obligation to help others. So far more than 300 troops have sacrificed their lives for the cause of peace in Bosnia. My country alone — Germany — has spent more than 17 billion marks on the peace process and on the more than 350,000 asylum-seekers in Germany coming from Kosovo. That is a lot of money, and those on whom we spend it will have to react in some way and have to give us a clear sign of their willingness to implement the agreements. But outside help, including military support, cannot be provided indefinitely. And on no account — I want to be unequivocal about this — will it be given to those who thwart peace and reconciliation. Attempts to undermine peace, to incite the people and to torpedo the implementation of the Dayton Agreement, especially in Republika Srpska — must stop. I appeal to all political factions in the region to use what time remains to launch a new and serious attempt to settle their differences and to see to it that Karadzic and other alleged war criminals and enemies of peace are brought before the Hague Tribunal. These people must not be allowed to sleep peacefully. But this demand must be made by the international community, not just Germany: these people must not be allowed to sleep peacefully. We Europeans have done quite a lot this year to improve the situation on our continent in order to secure a peaceful future for coming generations. Nations that belong together are now growing together, and that in a region that for centuries was divided and at war with itself. The European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization are gradually opening up to Europe’s new democracies, while Russia and Ukraine are forming a new, close partnership with both organizations. And let the world be prepared. In 1999 we Europeans, right on schedule and in conformity with binding stability criteria, will introduce the Euro, the common European currency. The enlargement of the European Union and the introduction of the Euro are historic steps to safeguard the future for coming generations, steps that hardly anyone would have thought possible only 10 years ago. And mark my words: there will be no going back in Europe. 12 At the same time, we are aware that Europe constitutes only a small section of the much larger global construction site. Everywhere the harbingers of the new era are knocking on the door. Nothing is like it used to be, yet the hopes and wishes of citizens everywhere have remained the same. They want peace and work. They want a roof over their heads, protection from crime, and schools for their children. Thus the aims and ideals enshrined in the Charter are just as valid as they were in 1945: peace, sustainable economic and social development, protection of human rights and democracy. These aims form a whole, and there is no order of preference. Eighty per cent of United Nations activities focus on world poverty, and rightly so, because this is the big problem that has remained unsolved since the ending of the East-West confrontation. Nearly a quarter of the world’s population — 1.3 billion people — live in poverty, while 840 million suffer from chronic undernourishment. In the Agenda for Development we have adopted the right course for the fight against poverty: good governance, market economy, the rule of law, security for the citizen, regional cooperation and international integration. Following the lead of the Association of South-East Asian Nations countries (ASEAN), the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR) and the now-expanding Southern African Development Community (SADC), the nations of Central America too are forming closer ties. It is becoming more and more apparent that this is the path of progress. The worldwide trend towards closer multilateral cooperation is increasing, and will lead to progress, security and prosperity; it is the path of the future. One the one hand, the Information Age with undreamed-of possibilities, and, on the other, exclusive communities and citizens without rights — this does not add up. Yes, globalization is a great leveller. Basically, it confronts industrial and developing countries alike with the same question: are we going to accept the challenge of being part of a “single world market”, or are we going to mark time? A good number of newly industrialized and developing countries have chosen the way forward, and it has proved to be the right one. They have received the bulk of global direct investment, which in 1996 increased by 8 per cent to almost $350 billion. Nor have the others been forgotten. Within the framework of the G-8 process, the new global partnership for development was established on their behalf. A beginning was made at the Denver summit in June, focusing particularly on the sub-Saharan nations of Africa. Since 1978 Germany has cancelled debts incurred by the least developed countries and other land-locked developing countries in Africa amounting to more than 9 billion marks. These countries will continue to be the focal point of our development cooperation. Between 1991 and 1995 Germany made available 16.3 billion marks for Africa’s sub-Saharan nations, and we are proud of that. I am glad that the Security Council is holding a special meeting tomorrow on the situation in Africa. Many positive developments have taken place there in recent years, a fact that is often overlooked. But light and shadow are still very close together. I need only mention Congo Brazzaville, Sierra Leone, Somalia and especially the Great Lakes region. My country, the Federal Republic of Germany, has played a humanitarian and political role in all these conflicts, and we recognize that the African States themselves — in the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and in the subregional organizations — are making significant efforts to settle these conflicts. We must keep on supporting them. But Africa’s real problems lie deeper, in the social and economic sphere, and in the lack of cohesion among the different population groups. In my view, Europe’s vast and important neighbouring continent, which has a population of about 800 million covers about 23 per cent of the world’s land surface, has little chance of achieving stability and economic progress unless it follows the path of regional cooperation. Such cooperation brings stability where nations are too weak to achieve it individually. Southern Africa is a good example. At the 1994 Berlin conference, cooperation between the SADC and the European Union was raised to a new level. At our meeting in June we and our African colleagues redefined the framework for the dialogue between the European Union and the OAU. Europe will stay on Africa’s side. Part of this support is that we are helping countries like Angola and Mozambique to rid themselves of the scourge of mines. So far mine clearance by hand has been, at least to me, like trying to remove a sand-dune with a thimble. We cannot accept that. What we need for this task is safe, large-capacity machinery. 13 The Oslo Conference gave rise to a sign of hope. Eighty countries have put their names to a comprehensive and verifiable ban on anti-personnel mines. I wish to thank the Secretary-General for his personal efforts on this issue. Anyone who, like me, has seen the poor, crippled victims in Cambodia, Mozambique or Bosnia knows that these treacherous killing devices are wholly — I repeat, wholly — immoral. I therefore appeal to all countries still on the outside to join the Ottawa process and help us ban these infernal devices from the face of the Earth. The world, galvanized by the spirit of freedom, has been totally transformed. But this new freedom and its by- products constitute a major test for us all, not only as regards competitiveness but also as regards our solidarity, our ability to show tolerance and to work together, and the opening of markets. The East-West conflict has been consigned to the past. Here too, the question now is: are we going to try and safeguard the future for posterity, or are we going to allow new enemy stereotypes to divide us once again? There must be no clash of civilizations. Hence, the dialogue of civilizations and world religions must be raised to a new level. To me this is the spiritual challenge as we approach the twenty-first century, for only thus can we bring different standpoints closer together and mobilize the energies needed for the joint resolution of humanity’s colossal problems. I suggest that we hold a forum here at the United Nations to consider how we can generate new momentum for this dialogue worldwide. The matter is important enough. Considerable cultural energy and potential for innovation lie unused, and the United Nations is the proper catalyst for their development. But we must be very clear that there cannot and should not be dialogue with terrorists. Terrorism has again raised its ugly head in Mostar, Jerusalem and Cairo. The vileness of the latest carnage in Algeria would be difficult to exceed: it really does take your breath away. How long can the international community look away? I know how difficult it is to help from the outside, but the world community cannot accept the cruel killing of utterly innocent people in the dark of night without standing up and reacting. We are not powerless in the face of such evil slaughter of mostly uninvolved persons. In Denver, the Group of Eight called upon all nations to sign the international conventions on terrorism. We must resolutely combat terrorism all over the world, using all democratic means at our disposal. I call upon the General Assembly to complete by the end of this session the negotiations on a convention against terrorist bomb attacks, as proposed by the Group of Eight. Extradition or suitable punishment remains the principle underlying our efforts to combat terrorism. No one should give refuge to terrorists. We need a united global front against terrorism. To combat fanatical killers we can only consistently apply the law as well as police and judicial measures. The source of sympathy for terrorist objectives must be withered by political means. In other words, we must get to the roots, which in most cases are social problems. On my last visit to the Middle East I spoke with many citizens in Jerusalem, Bethlehem and Hebron, and in the refugee camps in Gaza. I sensed their fears and concerns. Those who have seen the wretched conditions in the camps know that these people must be given a chance to improve their lives. They need to be able to hope again that the peace process is something from which they will benefit, that the violence will stop, that they can find work and have enough to eat, and that their children can go to school. For these hopes to materialize, both sides must show a large measure of good will. President Arafat must do everything in his power to stop the terrorism. And the Israeli Government must desist from any measures which cause the Palestinians to doubt Israel’s commitment to peace. The settlements issue remains the crucial test here; at least, that is what I believe. Continuing to build in Har Homa only makes matters worse, so a moratorium is essential. To my mind, this is the only way to reopen the door to peace talks. As for Iran, the new Government has changed its tone. It remains to be seen whether this will lead to a new, constructive policy, especially with regard to the Middle East peace process, human rights and international law. Germany has always maintained close and friendly relations with the Iranian people, and in spite of all that has happened, in spite of the Mykonos affair, we are ready for talks. It is up to the Iranian Government to provide the basis on which these can take place. We are pleased that Mrs. Robinson has taken up her post as the new High Commissioner for Human Rights. Nowhere is the need for a new culture of dialogue so great, we believe, as in the process of protecting such rights. This is crucial to world peace and global development. Any society that fails to respect human 14 rights, which include the right of development, is blocking its own progress. Our policy on this matter is based on dialogue and respect for different cultures. But we also agree with Pope John Paul II, who has said that if we want peace we must respect the conscience of the people. No civilization or religion denies people their rights or approves of murder and torture. Nor can any such action be justified on political grounds. We need an international criminal court of justice. The statute of such a court is to be drawn up in Rome next summer. The court must be empowered to act of its own accord where genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and wars of aggression are concerned, and to do so wherever national courts either do not exist or cannot or are unwilling to prosecute such crimes. The terrible genocides in Rwanda and Srbrenica are warning signs. Such cardinal crimes should not go unpunished. Our responsibility towards future generations is particularly acute where protection of the natural sources of life is concerned. That is why it is crucial to maintain the spirit engendered by the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, the Rio Summit. That is the purpose of the environment initiative put forward by Chancellor Kohl together with Brazil, South Africa and Singapore. The climate conference to be held in Kyoto in December will be a major test of the industrial world’s commitment to the environment. Germany intends to reduce its greenhouse-gas emissions by 25 per cent by the year 2010, based on 1990 levels. We and our partners in the European Union are asking the other industrial countries to cut theirs by at least 15 per cent. That would go part of the way towards meeting our responsibility towards posterity. When we look at the air pollution in southern Asia, we cannot fail to admit that we urgently need to agree on a forest convention. We must put an end to the ruthless burning of forests to clear vast areas of land. Those who deplete and destroy their own natural resources will make us all lose out in the end. The eleventh hour is approaching. Two weeks from now the decision on where to locate the secretariat of the Convention to Combat Desertification will be taken in Rome. We ask members to vote for Bonn. Since the secretariat of the Framework Convention on Climate Change already has its headquarters there, it makes sense to combine the two. The General Assembly is at a crossroads. Either we solve our reform problems now and come out of our introspective shell, or the United Nations will lose political standing — that is what would happen. All regional organizations, industrial, developing and non-aligned countries have a joint responsibility for implementing the reforms we have been talking about for so long. This applies to all areas of United Nations activity: economic and social, Security Council and finance. The Secretary-General has submitted a bold package of reforms. Even though we do not agree with every detail, we support the package as a whole. I appeal to all Member States: let us not talk it to shreds, but make quick decisions so that the necessary measures can be put into effect. The United Nations has to be streamlined in order to increase its efficiency. Whatever savings are made through reform should be used for developments- assistance purposes. The Security Council must reflect today’s political realities, one of which is the greater status of Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean. The debate on this matter should not be artificially prolonged. This the most important body of the United Nations, and it cannot credibly and effectively perform its role as the guardian of peace in the twenty-first century if its composition remains basically as it was in 1945. It is gratifying to note that a large number of States regard the reunited Germany as a suitable candidate for a permanent seat on the Security Council. If elected, we will be able to make a good contribution, one that is in keeping with the spirit of the Charter. Two years ago, on the Organization’s fiftieth birthday, we solemnly pledged to hand on to the next millennium a United Nations equipped and funded for its task. That promise has to be kept, and it has to be kept by all. This means, first and foremost, paying our contributions in full and on time, because without finances this Organization is a powerless one. The European Union has submitted its proposal for changing the scale of assessments, the purpose of which is to ensure a fair distribution of burdens. Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights reads, “All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed 15 with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.” This vision must be sustained: the vision of a world in which it is not the law of the strongest, but the strength of the law which prevails; a world in which both the strong and the weak feel at home; a world fit to live in which we can safely leave to our children and to our grandchildren.  ﻿On behalf of my Government and on my own behalf, allow me to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your unanimous election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty- second session. Your election to this office bears testimony to your commitment to the cause of international peace and security. I am sure that with your guidance and wide experience in international affairs, our work will record a successful outcome. You can rest assured of my delegation’s full support during your term of office. I would also like to put on record our appreciation of the manner in which your predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia, presided over the deliberations of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. His performance and innovative ideas will indeed help us tackle the challenges before our Organization in the years to come. Let me pay a well-deserved tribute to the Secretary- General of the United Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his leadership and the commitment to the ideals of international peace and security demonstrated in his first year of office. I wish him well and pledge our full support and cooperation as he discharges his responsibilities in our Organization in times of change. Within two days, Mozambique will celebrate five years of peace and stability. Looking back, albeit to see the challenges we have encountered, our nation has, without a doubt, made significant progress in its quest for the consolidation of peace and tranquillity, democracy and development, and we are determined further to pursue these goals. In the political sphere, we have succeeded in creating an enabling environment in which political discussions are being carried out positively both in Parliament and by civil society at large. As we deepen this positive experience within the framework of a pluralistic society, there is broad consensus among all Mozambicans that dialogue must continue to be the way to overcome differences and to address the development needs of our country. To this end, my Government will spare no effort in order to ensure that Parliament continues to function normally, for we believe that this course of action remains a key factor for the consolidation of peace, democracy and national reconciliation. The next step will be to hold the country’s first municipal elections, which will complement the process initiated in 1994 with the holding of multi-party general elections. The implementation of the structural adjustment programme initiated in 1987 has indeed created an attractive environment for private investment, both domestic and foreign, which is gradually and steadily leading the country to economic and social progress. It is within this multidisciplinary and global action that economic reforms are taking place, with results that are already positive and tangible. Preliminary indications of the performance of the economy during the first half of 1997 estimate that growth in gross domestic product will reach about 7 per cent by the end of this year, a figure which is higher than that originally forecast. In speaking on this very important subject I would like to underscore the high importance we attach to the need for flexibility with respect to the implementation of initiatives for debt relief and sustainability. My Government is encouraged by recent indications from international financial institutions concerning the impending decision on the eligibility of Mozambique to the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative. I would hope that once such a decision is made the time- frame between the decision point and the completion point might be as short as possible so as to have the desired impact on the economy. Without far-reaching debt relief measures, it will be virtually impossible for the country to sustain the current growth and stabilization of the economy. We hope that as soon as possible all least developed countries may accede to the Initiative. In this regard, my Government welcomes the recent admission of Russia to both the Group of 8 and the Paris Club. It is our hope that those steps will enable that country to play a more active and constructive role in matters related to debt forgiveness and relief, particularly 10 in relation to countries like Mozambique. For our part, we will continue to undertake and deepen further our political and economic reforms, as we have over the past 10 years, with particular emphasis on the provision of basic health care and education. The rehabilitation of the economic and social fabrics, especially in the rural areas, is seriously hampered by the scourge of landmines. These horrible weapons have killed and continue to kill and wound hundreds of innocent citizens. With that in mind, at the fourth International Conference of Non-Governmental Organizations on Landmines, which met at Maputo in February of this year, my Government approved a resolution that prohibits, with immediate effect, the production, commercialization, utilization and non-authorized transportation of anti- personnel landmines in the territory of Mozambique. My Government has been participating fully in the negotiations within the framework of the Ottawa process. In this respect, we welcome the results achieved at the recently concluded Oslo Diplomatic Conference. We urge all countries to heed the call of the peoples of the world and to join the majority of nations in signing the international treaty on the total ban of anti-personnel landmines in December this year. We wish to launch a vigorous appeal to the international community to ensure that all the provisions of that treaty with respect to, inter alia, the destruction of stockpiled anti-personnel mines and those laid within minefields and in areas outside minefields, and with respect to international cooperation and assistance, are fully implemented. In this respect, I wish to highlight the importance my Government attaches to the question of assistance to victims of landmines before, during and following mine clearance, in order to ensure the early and safe return and resettlement of displaced persons with a view to ensuring a speedy resumption of economic activity, in particular in rural areas. I would like to express our deep gratitude to those countries and organizations that are providing generous assistance in demining activities, and invite others to join us in implementing our national demining programme. In August this year, the Government and civil society jointly launched a national campaign for the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which will take place on 10 December 1998. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, with which my country fully associates itself, represents the commitment by all peoples of the world to their faith in human dignity. The nationwide celebrations, encompassing a variety of activities, will afford a unique opportunity to all Mozambicans — and, indeed, to other peoples elsewhere — to review and educate themselves on such an important issue for mankind. It will be an opportunity to underscore the importance of the non- selectivity, indivisibility and universality of human rights. Within that framework, my Government follows with keen attention the progress being made in the Preparatory Committee on the Establishment of an International Criminal Court. The establishment of such a court, with the purpose of bringing to justice individuals accused of committing the most heinous crimes, is an important contribution to the promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms. The court must be entrusted with clear powers in order fully to discharge its mandate. In particular, its competence and jurisdiction should be clearly defined in conformity with its objectives and taking into account the principle of complementarity. In the African continent, we are participating in discussions for the establishment of an African court of human and peoples’ rights. It is our hope that the high- level meeting scheduled for next year at Addis Ababa will succeed in finding the needed consensus on all outstanding issues pertaining to the court. In the past 12 months, the issue of United Nations reforms has gained new impetus with new developments which have taken place quite recently. It is a fact that there is a broad consensus with regard to the need for such reforms. Nevertheless, in carrying them out it will be important to find ways and means that will ensure that the legitimate rights and aspirations of all Member States, and in particular the developing countries, are safeguarded. This is particularly relevant with respect to the proposals for the enlargement of the Security Council. Similarly, my Government has taken due note of and welcomes the reform package presented by the Secretary- General in his report entitled “Renewing the United Nations: A Programme for Reform”. The report, the most comprehensive and far-reaching ever produced in the annals of the Organization, addresses vital elements that require in-depth discussion by Member States. As a country striving to strengthen peace and security both within its borders and in the regional context, as well as in the world as a whole, Mozambique regards preventive diplomacy, peacekeeping and post- conflict peace-building as important elements that must be 11 strengthened in the new international context. In this connection, we are participating with other countries of the region in joint efforts aimed at reinforcing our preparedness for emergencies. We therefore encourage and support the Secretary-General in his endeavours to enable the United Nations to deploy peacekeeping operations rapidly. In the field of human rights, I welcome the proposed consolidation of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Centre for Human Rights into a single new Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. I commend the Secretary- General for this course of action, which is in line with the sentiments expressed by Member States not only in the General Assembly but also within the framework of the Commission on Human Rights. The merging of the two bodies will in fact eliminate the duplication of tasks and expenditures and streamline the work of the new, consolidated body. On behalf of my Government, I wish to take this opportunity to congratulate Mrs. Mary Robinson on her assumption of the post of High Commissioner for Human Rights. We pledge to her our full support, both within the context of the Commission on Human Rights, of which Mozambique is a member, and also within the context of promoting human rights and fundamental freedoms worldwide. With respect to financing our Organization, I fully agree with the Secretary-General that the current financial crisis facing us “is directly linked to the failure of ... Member States to discharge their ... obligations regarding prompt and full payment of assessed ... contributions”. [A/51/950, para. 82] We would really hope that the very same countries that so far have failed to fulfil their treaty obligations, will this time not only pay their dues but also assist the Secretary- General by contributing to the proposed Revolving Credit Fund. I equally commend the proposed establishment of a development account resulting from reductions in non- programme costs over the next few years. We regard the establishment of such an account as an important contribution in addressing the economic and social needs of developing countries on a more consistent and predictable basis. We also endorse the proposed establishment of the post of Deputy Secretary-General within the framework of strengthening the leadership capacity of the Secretariat. The creation of a Strategic Planing Unit, in our view, will further enhance the ability of the Secretary- General to act in accordance with the provisions of the Article 99 of the Charter. In the light of the new realities, it is our firm belief that the information gathered by this Unit will be brought to the attention not only of that body but also of the General Assembly, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 10 and 11 of the Charter. As for the proposed establishment of the “UN House” under a single United Nations flag, it is important to ensure that the identity and the vast individual and unique experience — as well as the expertise — accumulated by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) are preserved. More significantly, the need for decentralization and flexibility in decision-making at the country level should be safeguarded and further enhanced so as to ensure that everyone benefits from the proposed consolidation. It is my Government’s hope that the new arrangement will result in a united, cooperative and coherent framework at the country level. The experience of coordination of all of the United Nations programmes and funds in Mozambique is positive and encouraging. We have taken due note of the proposal for the establishment of a ministerial-level commission to examine possible changes in the Charter with a view to preparing our Organization for the challenges of the next century. Given the complexity of the issues to be looked at, the commission should be established on the basis of geographic representation, after adequate consultations, and should be provided with clear and precise terms of reference in order to guarantee that its views are universal and as consensual as possible. It is our hope that the proposed reforms — those being implemented within the purview of the Secretary- General, as well as the ones under discussion in the Working Group — will result in greater focus of the United Nations in the economic and social spheres. Now that we have gathered consensus on an Agenda for Development, we need to ensure that appropriate steps are taken by a reformed, more efficient United Nations to realize our goals. 12 The trends towards the establishment of regional and continental blocs require deep cooperation and integrated economies. Only combined unity of purpose and action can lend greater leverage and capacity to negotiate and make economies competitive for investment. This must be complemented by political stability and an enabling environment for domestic and foreign investment. We in southern Africa are joining our efforts towards this goal within the framework of the Southern African Development Community (SADC). These efforts will be further enhanced to a great extent by the recently established Indian Ocean Rim-Association for Regional Cooperation (IOR-ARC). The new organization assembles a variety of countries from Asia and Africa, plus Australia. Its fundamental principles include the facilitation and promotion of economic cooperation, bringing together representatives of government, business and academia. My Government follows with renewed interest the efforts towards the mitigation of conflicts throughout the world. We are conscious of the fact that economic and social development are possible only when we live in peace and political stability. Therefore, prevention, management and conflict resolution constitute a fundamental issue in our foreign policy. In this regard, I wish to associate myself with previous speakers in congratulating most sincerely the establishment of the Democratic Republic of the Congo following decades of uncertainty. We hope that the new authorities will play a positive role in our collective efforts for regional peace and stability, particularly in the Great Lakes region. The challenges facing the new Government are indeed immense and deserve assistance and support from the international community. Likewise, we commend the successful outcome of the electoral process in Liberia, which symbolizes the completion of the peace process in that country. We look forward to the reinvigoration of a united, peaceful and prosperous country which is ready to contribute to the effort towards the economic stabilization of the entire region. It is our hope that the international community will spare no efforts in assisting Liberia to overcome the tragedy that has fallen on it for so many years. The Economic Community of West African States Monitoring Group (ECOMOG) deserves our special commendation for the role it has played in the resolution of the Liberian crisis and for its current efforts in the restoration of peace and respect for the rule of law in Sierra Leone. We equally note with satisfaction the recent progress made for the settlement of the issue of Western Sahara, and we encourage the parties concerned to continue down this positive path. The peace process in Angola continues to face serious challenges as a result of the failure of UNITA to comply fully with the agreed commitments under the Lusaka Protocol. With the recent adoption of Security Council resolution 1130 (1997), it is now for this body to ensure that the provisions of all other relevant resolutions are fully complied with in order to bring the peace process back on track and to avoid the continued delays we have been witnessing over the three years of the implementation of the Lusaka Protocol. On the other hand, my Government remains concerned about the situation in the Congo. We support the initiative of the heads of State and Government of the region under the leadership of His Excellency President Bongo, and we call upon the parties to exercise maximum restraint in order not to jeopardize any further those efforts. All parties concerned must set aside their differences and work together for the attainment of a negotiated settlement to prevent further suffering of innocent civilians and destruction of property. Recent events in the Comoros islands underline the need for full respect of the independence and territorial integrity of all States, under any circumstances. We encourage permanent dialogue among all concerned parties so as to find a negotiated settlement of the dispute within the framework of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) peace initiatives. On behalf of my Government, I would like to express our solidarity to the people of East Timor. We do hope that the ongoing negotiations between Portugal and Indonesia under the auspices of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, and other initiatives, will finally lead to a successful outcome of this issue in accordance with the principles and purposes of the Charter. On the Middle East, my Government notes with concern the deterioration of the security situation in that 13 area, which poses great danger to the efforts to achieve a comprehensive, just and lasting solution in the region. Peace cannot be achieved at the expense of other peoples’ interests. The policy of establishing new settlements in the occupied Arab and Palestinian territories should be discontinued. As we have said before, the existence of both Israel and Palestine is an undeniable reality which nobody should ignore if we are to reach a final settlement of this long-standing conflict. Dialogue and compliance with security Council and General Assembly resolutions are the instruments through which a solution should be found in the Middle East. We are also following with interest the developments concerning the conflict situations in the Persian Gulf region. In the highest interests of its peoples, we urge all the parties concerned to act together with a view to finding an internationally acceptable solution to all outstanding issues, in accordance with the purposes and principles of the Charter. At the dawn of the new millennium, we bear the responsibility of preparing the United Nations to save not only succeeding generations from the scourge of war but also to provide an Organization that will effectively and efficiently promote cooperation and development. We in Mozambique are prepared to work towards this goal. ﻿The illustrious election of the President of the General Assembly of the United Nations at its fifty- second session is not only a well-deserved tribute to his country, Ukraine, in recognition of its important role on the international scene, but an acknowledgement of his own human and professional qualities and, above all, his rich experience in international relations and in the United Nations system. Furthermore, as his former colleague when I was Permanent Representative of my own country here for many years, I am personally delighted at this well-deserved demonstration of the confidence the international community has in him. It is therefore a pleasure for me, on behalf of the delegation of Côte d’Ivoire, to address to him and to the other members of the Bureau our sincere congratulations and to assure him of our full support in the accomplishment of his mission. 21 I also extend my heartfelt thanks to his predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail, for his remarkable efforts to give decisive impetus to the process of the reform of our Organization. Finally, I should like to extend my warmest congratulations to Mr. Kofi Annan, a worthy son of Africa, on his illustrious election as Secretary-General of the United Nations, and I pay heartfelt tribute to him for the great competence that he has unfailingly demonstrated at the head of the United Nations. In less than a year he has been able to instil our Organization with a new dynamism through actions that bear witness to his firm will to strengthen the effectiveness and credibility of the United Nations and to improve its operations in facing the many complex demands of the world at the dawn of a new millennium. We assure him of the support of the delegation of Côte d’Ivoire in his noble and exhilarating task. I also take this opportunity to extend my warm congratulations to Mrs. Mary Robinson on her appointment to the post of United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. We consider her strong personality to be a guarantee of success in the delicate and important mission with which she has been entrusted. We assure her of our complete support in the exercise of her new functions. Today, regardless of what our assessment of the work of the United Nations may be, it is necessary to recognize that it remains a unique and irreplaceable tool for dialogue among nations at the service of international peace and security. Clearly, it is unanimously held that the United Nations is useful and that it must exist; with equal unanimity we call for its revitalization. The question of the reform of the United Nations is thus at the heart of this session, which strikingly demonstrates how necessary and urgent it is. The Secretary-General rightly proclaimed this session the session of reform. Adapting the United Nations to make it better able to enter the next millennium seems to be the great challenge of the reform to which we all aspire. But before expressing my delegation’s observations on the Secretary-General’s proposals for reform, I should like to share some of our major concerns, which I believe must be taken into account if the continent to which my country belongs is to experience real development commensurate with its immense potential. I wish to speak about conflict management in Africa and international cooperation for the economic and social development of Africa. One cannot fail to note that over 60 per cent of the agenda of the Security Council is devoted to situations in Africa, and that of the 48 least developed countries, 35 are in Africa. In respect of conflicts in Africa, our continent has taken charge of its own destiny. To this end, it established legal instruments at the Organization of African Unity (OAU) summit in Cairo in 1993, in the form of the Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution. If this venture is going to work Africa needs above all the support of the international community in the framework of a partnership with the United Nations, in accordance with Chapter VIII of the Charter. Thus in Liberia, at the end of a seven-year fratricidal war which devastated that fraternal country and caused enormous damage to neighbouring countries such as Guinea and Côte d’Ivoire that had to deal with massive flows of refugees and displaced persons, the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) was able to broker a peace process which led to the election of Mr. Charles G. Taylor as President of the Republic on 19 July 1997 in elections that the OAU and the United Nations recognized as just and democratic. In the context of the meeting to support the reconstruction of Liberia which will take place tomorrow, I would like to make an urgent appeal to donor countries and international and non-governmental organizations to be generous, because a reconstructed and prosperous Liberia can only benefit our entire subregion. While we are delighted at the positive development of the situation in Liberia, a military coup d’état on 25 May 1997 put an end to the constitutional order in Sierra Leone by overthrowing a democratically elected President, Mr. Ahmad Tejan Kabbah. Côte d’Ivoire immediately condemned the coup d’état, which belongs to a bygone era. The thirty-third meeting of heads of State and Government of the OAU, held in Harare from 2 to 4 June 1997, by its decision 356 also condemned the coup d’état, as did the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the Presidents of the Security Council on 27 May, 11 July and 6 August 1997, who all demanded the immediate and unconditional restoration of constitutional order. 22 Unfortunately, the negotiations initiated by the group of five States mandated by ECOWAS with the representatives of the junta in power in Freetown have so far not succeeded in achieving the objectives of the international community. Therefore, the heads of State, during the last ECOWAS summit, in Abuja on 28 and 29 August 1997, were obliged to take a certain number of measures which we hope will be endorsed by the Security Council to allow the Committee of Five to resume, with the complete support of the international community, new negotiations for a return to constitutional order in Sierra Leone, a country whose instability remains a serious threat to the fledgling Liberian democracy and the entire subregion. In the view of the OAU, ECOWAS and the Security Council, the Abidjan peace agreement of 30 November 1996, signed by President Kabbah and the leader of the Revolutionary United Front (RUF), Mr. Foday Sankoh, remains the best framework for finding a definitive solution to the crisis in Sierra Leone. Once constitutional order is restored, Côte d’Ivoire is prepared to organize, together with the other guarantors of this agreement and the parties concerned, a conference aimed at reactivating the many organs of that agreement in order to find a lasting solution to this crisis. In Central Africa, we remain profoundly concerned by the fratricidal battles now taking place in the Congo. In this respect, we wish to express our sincere appreciation to Mr. Omar Bongo, President of the Gabonese Republic, for his patient and courageous mediation in the inter-Congolese conflict. While urging him to continue his noble efforts, we regret the deterioration of the situation and above all the fact that no cease-fire has been accepted by the warring parties, which has prevented the establishment of an African interposition force. In the Central African Republic, we welcome the role of the Inter-African Mission to Monitor the Implementation of the Bangui Agreements (MISAB), which has helped stabilize the situation. In respect of the crisis in the Comoros, we urgently appeal to all parties to give priority to dialogue and to respond favourably to the OAU initiative with a view to holding a conference in Addis Ababa to find a solution. We invite the international community to support the efforts of the OAU and to give the Comoros all the economic and financial assistance it needs to confront the difficulties it is facing, which are the root cause of the crisis. With regard to Angola, we take note of the recent Security Council resolution 1130 (1997), which was adopted unanimously. While we welcome the recent measures taken by UNITA in response to the Council’s appeal, we hope that it will persevere in that direction in order to meet all its obligations pursuant to the Lusaka Protocol. Finally, in respect of the question of Western Sahara, we applaud the progress made during the series of meetings under the auspices of the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General of the United Nations for Western Sahara, Mr. James Baker III, with a view to holding a referendum on self-determination. Given the renewed upsurge of instability and conflict in many parts of Africa, we fervently appeal to the United Nations to organize a regional conference in collaboration with the OAU and ECOWAS to deal with the illicit circulation of small arms in the West African subregion, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 51/45. In the same context, we are delighted with the results of the Oslo conference on anti-personnel landmines, and in view of the human disasters that this type of weapon continues to cause in Africa and the world over, we urge all States to adhere to the results and respect the terms. My delegation believes that the present state of our continent requires a concerted policy of international security and implementation of preventive strategies, and Côte d’Ivoire intends to be actively involved. This is why, in defining recently new missions for Côte d’Ivoire’s armed forces, President Henri Konan Bédié specified that they can henceforth participate in peacekeeping operations and that they stand ready to carry out possible protection and security missions which might be conferred upon them by the international community. More specifically, it seems to us increasingly necessary to have a standing African interposition force. In western Africa, for example, ECOWAS, drawing from the experience of the ECOWAS Monitoring Group (ECOMOG) in the settlement of the Liberian conflict, could envisage the reorganization of this force in order to make it a genuine subregional force. In this context, consultations for the establishment of a peacekeeping force are under way in the framework of the Agreement on Non-Aggression and Assistance in Matters of Defense (ANAD) which includes Côte d’Ivoire, Senegal, Burkina Faso, Benin, Niger, Mali, Mauritania and Togo. 23 The elements of the ANAD peacekeeping force would be coordinated in predetermined tactical or logistical modules in a state of operational readiness on their respective territories and could be sent into action at short notice. These stand-by elements could be regrouped at the request of ECOWAS, the OAU or the United Nations. However effective our rapid-reaction capacity may be, we will have to seek, above all, to strengthen the effective rule of democracy and the rule of law in each of our countries in order to avoid crises turning into armed conflict. Above all, every country must seek to achieve political stability and to promote social progress by establishing reliable democratic institutions based on freedom and justice and which guarantee the protection of the citizen and individual rights. We must develop the elements of good governance and promote the emergence of responsible society. For its part, Côte d’Ivoire under the leadership of President Henri Konan Bédié, is endeavouring day by day to strengthen democracy and the rule of law by resolute action towards a peaceful democracy. Recent measures in this connection have been announced, including the forthcoming opening of the Government to the opposition, the granting of status to the leaders of the opposition parties represented in Parliament; the creation of a Senate whose President will be acting Head of State in the event of a power vacuum; and the creation of a National Commission for monitoring and arbitration of elections. It will be presided over by a judge and made up of personalities and representatives of the leading political parties, along with international observers from the Organization of African Unity (OAU), the United Nations, the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), the European Union and the Canadian Electoral Committee. All of those elements are contributing to speeding the progress of democracy in Côte d’Ivoire. Lastly, our people remain profoundly committed to the culture of peace, and it is to that commitment that Côte d’Ivoire owes its unquestioned political stability, based on the constancy of social dialogue and on the desire for shared progress that strengthens social unity. That is why my delegation, along with a number of co-sponsors, intends to submit to this session of the General Assembly, as it did at the summer session of the Economic and Social Council held last July at Geneva, a draft resolution proclaiming the year 2000 as the international year for the culture of peace. My second subject of concern relates to the effects of globalization on African economies with respect to access to foreign markets, the volume of official development assistance and favourable treatment for foreign debt. With regard to access to foreign markets, globalization, carried out in the name of liberalization and competitiveness, has led to the erosion and even the eradication of preferences that allow the goods of our countries to gain access to the markets of developed countries. We must be given time to adapt, or be compensated in some other way, if our countries are to participate in international trade to their full potential. We commend the recent United States initiative, “Growth and opportunity in Africa”, which is aimed, inter alia, at promoting the access of African goods to the American market. With regard to the effect of globalization on the volume of official development assistance, we note that for all the enthusiasm for the development of the private sector — development which we welcome, recognizing that private investment is the driving force of economic growth — a trend towards a decline in official development assistance, despite its importance in the fight against poverty in our countries. That trend concerns us, because official development assistance is essential in supporting our domestic efforts, above all in sectors related to the development of human resources. We therefore urge the donor countries to redouble their efforts to achieve the target of 0.7 per cent of their gross domestic product. Lastly, with regard to the question of foreign debt, there is now broad agreement that without favourable treatment for the stock of African debt, particularly in the most heavily indebted countries, no economic recovery programme can produce the desired long-term positive effects. We must therefore insist that serious consideration be given to measures in this regard. We welcome the measures recently taken in favour of Uganda, Bolivia and Burkina Faso within the framework of the debt-alleviation Initiative of the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the Paris Club. I am delighted to learn that my own country, Côte d’Ivoire, along with Mozambique and Guyana, will be the next to benefit from that Initiative. I would also note that my country is involved in a satisfactory dialogue with the London Club with a view to a significant restructuring of our commercial debt. 24 Turning to the question of United Nations reform, which lies at the heart of this session, we must distinguish between two aspects that dovetail to form a single coherent and logical unit. We have on the one hand the reforms being set in motion by Member States and on the other the programme of reforms proposed by the Secretary-General in his report (A/51/950) of 14 July 1997. With regard to the reforms being driven by Member States, I would refer to the activities of various open-ended Working Groups of the General Assembly. Having personally been privileged to conduct the consultations that led to the establishment of three of those Groups during my own term of office as President of the forty-ninth session, I am pleased to note the relatively positive results of two of them: the Ad Hoc Open-ended Working Group on An Agenda for Development and the Open-ended High-Level Working Group on the Strengthening of the United Nations System. The States participating in those Groups have shown a magnificent spirit of solidarity. The Agenda for Development, adopted last June by the General Assembly, is an important stage in the dialogue between nations on international cooperation for development. It establishes the consensus framework within which developed and developing countries can work to establish on a more solid basis a renewed and strengthened partnership for development based on mutual advantage. The Open-ended High-Level Working Group on the Strengthening of the United Nations System, which has had to deal mainly with the revitalization of the General Assembly and the Secretariat, has produced recommendations that are part of the dynamics of the reforms proposed by the Secretary-General, inter alia, to rationalize the work of the General Assembly and its subsidiary bodies. My delegation is pleased with those positive results. With regard to the High-Level Open-ended Working Group on the Financial Situation of the United Nations and the Open-ended Working Group on the reform of the Security Council, we cannot help but feel frustrated that they are apparently bogged down and have not made the expected progress. We are all aware of the crucial importance of the financial situation of the United Nations. The success of the entire reform process depends on a solution to that question. We should like to reaffirm here the need for all Member States to fulfil their obligations under Article 19 of the Charter, namely, to honour their financial obligations towards the United Nations fully, on time and without conditions. Similarly, we express our complete support for the principle of capacity to pay as a basis for the scale of assessments. We believe it is necessary to deal with those questions courageously and responsibly in order to provide our Organization with a viable, sound and solid financial base. Turning to the important question of Security Council reform, our position is that of the African Group as defined at the recent Summit Meeting of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) at Harare, which stressed that the new configuration of the Security Council must reflect the realities of today’s world through a geographically equitable representation of all the regions of the world. In that connection, my delegation, while in favour of the admission of Germany and Japan as permanent members of the Security Council, is of the opinion that Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, as well as Asia, should also be represented as permanent members of the Security Council. The new permanent members should have the same prerogatives as the present permanent members, in particular as regards the right of the veto, which, if not done away with entirely, should be restricted to the conditions set forth in Chapter VII of the Charter. Turning to the reforms proposed by the Secretary- General, I want to express my delegation’s sincere congratulations on the work accomplished. These reforms are the broadest and most profound that we have ever seen. My delegation therefore supports them enthusiastically. It is our expectation that this reform process will lead to the promotion of the economic and social development of less developed Member States, the strengthening of multilateralism and an increase in the United Nations effectiveness and credibility.T o accomplish that, we must see to it that the reform exercise is not confined to an obsessive desire purely and simply to reduce costs. The measures aimed at increasing the Secretary- General’s guidance and management capacity seem to us amply justified. In fact, the presence of a Deputy Secretary-General, a Senior Management Group and a Strategic Planning Unit will provide the Secretary-General with an internal support mechanism that will considerably strengthen his authority and his overall control system- wide. 25 The new configuration of the Secretariat organizational chart is attractive in its concision and coherence, but above all in its objective of effectiveness. Nonetheless, the comprehensive measures aimed at regrouping 12 entities and administrative units into five services should not result in either a decline in the programme level of operational activities for development or in a decrease in the quality of technical cooperation services due to a reduction of staff. In the same context, the establishment of a Development Group composed mainly of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) should not affect the dynamic nature of their activities in the field. Lastly, the proposals of the Secretary-General to refocus the work of the General Assembly on high-priority questions and to reduce the duration of its sessions reflect a concern for rationalization that we fully support. We agree with the Secretary-General’s statement that reform is a continuous process and not a one-time event. In fact, this reform is the result of an entire series of reflections that began in the 1970s within and outside the United Nations system to adapt it to the changes that have taken place since 1945. I have in mind the report of the Ford Foundation, the Bertrand report, the work of the Carlsson group and the work of many universities in the United States and in Europe, whose research clarified many aspects of our debates, especially during the work of the working groups on the different aspects of reform. Nonetheless, any reform is above all part of a certain logic aimed at achieving an objective. But its success in the final analysis will depend on the quality of the individuals who are going to implement it, and above all on the political will of the States that will be called upon to work together to respect the spirit of compromise that made it possible to arrive at the package. For its part, Côte d’Ivoire is prepared to participate actively with other delegations when the time comes in the constructive consideration of the Secretary-General’s proposals for reform. Their consequences involve all of us.  ﻿It is with particular pleasure that I extend to you, Mr. President, my sincerest congratulations, and those of my Government, on your election as President of the General Assembly. Your election will ensure that the business of the General Assembly will be conducted skilfully, impartially and very efficiently at this important moment for the General Assembly, when it will have to make decisions that may be vital to the future of our Organization. The General Assembly session that we are now beginning is a particularly important one in that its purpose is to ensure that in the future multilateral activity will be assured of validity, effectiveness and credibility. With the United Nations having completed more than 50 years of existence, we need new ways to view the world, without forgetting the many achievements made and the valuable experience gained both from successes and from failures. This is an appropriate time for us to renew our commitment to multilateralism as the guiding principle of international relations and the essential tool to resolve crises and problems that are beyond the ability of any State, however important or powerful it may be, to resolve on its own. This is particularly important in the face of a growing unilateralism that has recently emerged as a feature of the international scene. The new international reality makes it essential for States to act together so as to confront energetically and resolutely the problems of the environment, organized crime, arms control, human rights, democratization, poverty, unemployment, social fragmentation and many other issues. Chile has consistently contributed to the Organization and, to the limits of its ability to do so, will continue to lend its strong support to the great work of the United Nations in all its forums. I wish to speak first of the issue of the Security Council and its reform process. I stressed before the General Assembly last year the importance of greater involvement by Member States in the decisions of the Security Council in order to strengthen its legitimacy and 25 give it the necessary political backing for the actions it undertakes. We reiterate once again the desirability of revising the composition of the Security Council and its working methods. In this connection, we appreciate the arduous work conducted by the Working Group on this issue, which has served to clarify the various positions and to allow a proper appraisal of this enormously complex subject. I wish especially to pay tribute to the outgoing President of the General Assembly, Mr. Razali Ismail of Malaysia, for his keen sense of responsibility and his courage in taking the initiative to make specific proposals on these matters in order to ease the difficulties encountered within the Working Group and make it possible to analyse and discuss them in specific terms. My Government considers that any future composition of the Council must combine the requirements of its effectiveness with the need for an equitable representation of the developing countries that properly reflects the increase in the number of Members in the past 50 years. Where these fundamental issues are concerned, Chile supports and endorses the content of the Declaration on the strengthening of the United Nations and the reform of the Security Council issued by the Heads of State or Government at the eleventh summit of the Rio Group in Asunción, Paraguay, on 24 August of this year. In that Declaration we expressed the great importance we attach to the process of expanding and reforming the Security Council, which must result in a broad general agreement that will make it possible to correct the imbalances in its current composition, improve the decision- making mechanisms, make the conduct of its work more transparent and represent with greater legitimacy all States Members of the Organization. With regard to the total number of members of the Security Council, we believe that a membership of up to 25 would not impair its effectiveness, provided that the expansion met the requirements of responding properly to the increase in United Nations Member States since the last reform of the Charter and the undeniably growing importance of developing countries. Chile shares in the broad base of agreement on allowing the entry of Germany and Japan as permanent members of the Security Council. Nevertheless, there is also a conviction that this can take place only in the context of suitable regional representation, including other permanent members from Asia, Africa and Latin America. We support a process of regional consultation and consensus to fill these seats. This, however, does not exclude a possible role for the General Assembly in case there is an absence of regional agreement. In this connection, the Assembly will have to analyse carefully the proposals that have been put forward regarding rotation. These are undoubtedly attractive since they include a larger number of countries, but they could impair the effectiveness of the Council and increase tensions between permanent and non-permanent members. As far as the Latin American and Caribbean region is concerned, its fundamental responsibility is to fill its seats through a process that gives its members legal validity and political legitimacy. In this process, consideration must be given to all the possibilities that will allow for appropriate regional representation. Chile is prepared to accept any formula that reflects this. Serious consideration must be given to the possibility that only one of its members will occupy the permanent seat allocated to the region. The question of the veto will also have to be discussed in greater depth, taking into account many factors, such as legal ones relating to Charter obligations and the evolution of modern international law, and political ones, such as the evolution of the international situation, which are today very different from those prevailing at the time the United Nations came into being. The outgoing President of the General Assembly has made some very interesting proposals in this regard, which need to be carefully considered by Member States. Chile is concluding this year, with a sense of satisfaction, its participation in the Security Council after an absence of more than 30 years. Our decision to participate was motivated by the need to assume our international responsibilities, and we did so in the conviction that we could make a contribution. As a preliminary conclusion, I would like to emphasize that the rich contribution of the non-permanent members of the Council provides genuine balance and enables the Council to renew itself over time. Our experience has been a rewarding one, and we have sought to focus our contribution, beyond our natural interest in issues relating to the Latin American region, on a number 26 of areas in which welcome progress has been made, to which Chile has made an effective contribution. We welcome the important progress the Council has made regarding its responsibility in the humanitarian sphere, which has necessarily become a major aspect of the maintenance of international peace and security. This is the foundation of the presidential statement issued by the Council on the protection of humanitarian workers. The strengthening of this aspect of the Council's work was one of the main issues in which Chile participated. Motivated by our concern about this matter, we proposed a mechanism that establishes the modalities by which the Council communicates with the humanitarian agencies working in the field. Similarly, Chile has been particularly concerned that countries that have experienced severe conflicts should not be abandoned by the system once conflict ends. We have therefore insisted on the need for a United Nations presence in the field when peace-building gives way to overall reconstruction and development activities. With respect to sanctions, it has been demonstrated that, where authoritarian Governments are concerned, broad sanction regimes merely penalize the population without bringing about political change. We have noted the progress made by the Council in devising sanctions, as in the case of resolution 1072 (1996) on the situation in Burundi and the one recently adopted on UNITA in Angola, which are indeed capable of yielding the desired results without harming innocent populations. Lastly, Chile has attached special importance to African affairs while a member of the Security Council. We believed it important to assist the Council in taking decisions on the problems that region is facing at this historic moment when African countries are assuming their own responsibilities for regional problems, as has been apparent in the Organization of African Unity initiative in the Arusha process and the activities of the Economic Community of West African States, among others. We are aware that the reform process is not confined to the Security Council. The Secretary-General has told us clearly and lucidly that we are facing the most extensive and farthest-reaching reforms in the 52 years of this Organization's history. Accordingly, we welcome his comprehensive report of last July, entitled, 'Renewing the United Nations: A programme for reform'. We agree with his proposals aimed at transforming the leadership and management structure of the United Nations so as to enable it to act with greater unity of purpose, coherence and agility in tackling the problems. We wish to convey to the Secretary-General and his colleagues our gratitude for the report, which the General Assembly will have to analyse in depth, and Chile will contribute to the debate with interest and dedication and in an open spirit of consensus. In this connection, we agree with the Secretary- General's statement that the major source of institutional weakness in the United Nations is the fact that over the course of the past half century certain of its organizational features have tended to become fragmented, duplicated and rigid, resulting in their ineffectiveness in some areas and superfluity in others. As Chile sees it, the main obstacle to the reform process has been the fear of change that exists in the Organization, which has paralysed the process since it began here in the General Assembly four years ago. The time has come for all of us, the Secretariat and Member States alike, to show proudly our collective creativity, courage and realistic inventiveness. The period of bureaucratization in the United Nations must give way to the era of creation. Only through flexible and efficient management will we be able to give new impetus to the Organization and provide it with the proper tools for the true modernization the international community demands. Reform is not intrinsically an exercise in cutting costs or reducing staff. Its aim is to ensure a real and growing increase in the political effectiveness of the United Nations, from the Security Council and the way it deals with and resolves present-day conflicts in today's world to the Economic and Social Council and the development agencies. Many of the problems facing the Organization result from the fact that Member States have been remiss in responding to the need to adapt intergovernmental machinery to the new requirements of the international situation. This is perhaps one of the main aspects of the reform process we have embarked upon. Accordingly, it is essential to proceed further with the reorientation and restructuring of the Economic and Social Council in order to coordinate both the agencies and its subsidiary bodies so that it may engage in executive interaction with the functions of the General Assembly. In that way, it can regain its leadership position as a flexible and efficient organ and contribute effectively to answering the challenges on the economic and social agenda of the Organization. 27 Given this mandate of the Economic and Social Council, its future relationship with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund will be extremely important. In this connection, the establishment of a substantive secretariat of the Economic and Social Council seems to us an interesting proposal. Furthermore, the reform process should leave room for the progressive regionalization that is taking place within the United Nations system. In the review of the regional commissions to be carried out by the Economic and Social Council, there is a need to find mechanisms which, without affecting the regional mandates of each commission, can contribute to the definition and regional implementation of the major agreements and consensuses reached by the major conferences sponsored by the United Nations system over the past decade. We are following with interest the proposal to give to the Resident Coordinator of the Secretary-General authority over all United Nations bodies in the field. This new integrated approach, in which the funds and programmes will retain their autonomy, will contribute to the necessary cohesion and reduce the natural tendency towards divergence between the multidisciplinary agencies represented, thereby strengthening their activities. It also seems to us essential to evaluate the subsidiary bodies in greater depth, using as the main criteria their relevance and effectiveness, and to take the appropriate decisions. Accordingly, we are concerned by the recommendation to merge the Commissions on Narcotic Drugs and on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, since that would run the risk of limiting treatment of the problem of narcotic drugs merely to its criminal dimension, losing sight, in the process, of elements that are an inherent part of the drug issue, such as education and prevention. At the same time, the reform process must assign special importance to measures and mechanisms designed to accelerate economic and social development, especially in Africa, by supporting domestic efforts at economic restructuring, diversification of raw materials and increased food security being carried out by the countries of the region. We welcome the proposals designed to strengthen the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, both institutionally and substantively, since they seem to us to be of great importance for the future development of the Organization. The protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms, together with democracy and equitable growth, are the three pillars of present-day international society. As the Secretary-General himself has stated, they constitute an essential component of international peace and security. Any measure that contributes to strengthening the ability of the High Commissioner for Human Rights to take action will receive the firm support of the Chilean delegation. Similarly, we strongly support the initiatives by the Secretary-General with regard to the proposals for interaction between civil society and private enterprise, which have become major actors at both the national and international levels. The time has come for civil society, including the business community, to participate in the United Nations at a level that reflects the contribution that it has been making for some time. A series of measures have been recommended to us that are designed to make more flexible the procedures for deliberations in the General Assembly, to reduce the length of meetings, apply a thematic approach to topical issues, overcome delays and enable us to concentrate on the most essential matters. While technically these proposals appear to relate more to formal than to substantive aspects, we know that in fact they will not be simple or merely procedural decisions. In reality, their aim is to promote the capacity of this Organization to build consensus, so as to arrive at concise decisions in the shortest possible time. On financial matters, we endorse the proposal for results-based budgeting, with few institutional mechanisms having a major strategic impact. This seems to us an innovation will have far-reaching consequences for the Organization. We also support the idea of reallocating savings to economic and social activities through the establishment of a development account. 28 We have focused our statement on the great task of reform, which is difficult, complex and full of potential as well as of problems. We are determined to find the solutions that the United Nations requires if it is to discharge all its mandates and satisfy the demands and aspirations of an international community that is anxious to place in the Organization great hopes for the future. We are determined not to let this opportunity to restructure and renew the United Nations pass us by. The full cooperation of the Chilean delegation can be counted on in this effort.﻿As I take the floor on behalf of the delegation of the Republic of Benin, I would like first to associate myself with the words of congratulations and deep appreciation expressed to Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko by previous speakers. They spoke so eloquently that I will confine myself to saying how hopeful I am that this session will benefit from his proven competence and his remarkable analytical mind in order to draw from our debates constructive conclusions that preserve a just balance between the different suggestions and recommendations contained in the various statements. The particular significance and nature of this session do not reside only in the impressive gathering of leaders from 185 Member States. That has long been customary, and has even become ritual, during this period every year since the establishment of the United Nations in 1945. What confers on this fifty-second session a distinctive character, and what promises it an excellent place in the annals of the United Nations, is the central focus of its agenda, which, as we all know, is devoted to structural reform. What is our assessment of the specific reform provisions that are to be discussed and decided upon in the course of these meetings? What are the ins and outs of reform, the issues at stake and the real objectives? Are the reforms capable of giving the Organization the means for productive and effective action to meet the complex problems and numerous challenges on the horizon of the next millennium, whose effects are already strongly felt in the everyday realities of today’s world? These are a few of the major concerns of countries, such as mine, that are today experiencing both hope and doubt: hope based on the enormous potential of our Earth, whose intelligent, rational and well-directed use should make it possible to ensure the progress, prosperity and development to which all peoples legitimately aspire; but also doubt, a feeling of stubborn and profound uncertainty constantly fuelled by misery and poverty, ignorance and disease, technological lags, and the economic backwardness that over 1.5 billion human beings suffer from. Since his election in January 1997 our Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan, has resolutely tackled, with commendable diligence, strength and motivation, the preparation of a programme for reform, which he himself rightly describes as “the most extensive and far-reaching reforms in the fifty-two year history of this Organization.” (A/51/950, Letter of Transmittal, first paragraph) It is reform aimed at giving the United Nations “the ways in which the United Nations can more effectively and efficiently meet the challenges that lie ahead as we enter a new century, and a new millennium”. (ibid.) We regard as appropriate the global approach taken by the Secretary-General, his view of general and sectoral problems, the thrust of the measures and solutions he advocates, in accordance with a methodology that combines pragmatism and the need for democratic and more effective functioning. Therefore, the delegation of Benin is in favour of the bulk of the proposals in the report. Nonetheless, I must draw attention to the following considerations to which my country attaches great importance. First, Benin believes that it would not be appropriate to eliminate the Committee for Development Planning, which is, inter alia, entrusted with developing the performance criteria for the least developed countries. We believe that rather than having it replaced by groups of experts created by the Economic and Social Council we should consider purely and simply retaining the Committee. Secondly, since the situation in Africa is one of the priorities on which the Secretary-General would like to focus in the next five years. My country would hope that the Office of the Special Coordinator for Africa and Least Developed Countries might be strengthened in terms of human and financial resources in order to be better able to play a full role within the United Nations system. 25 Thirdly, although on 20 June 1997, following over three years of negotiations, the General Assembly adopted the Agenda for Development, it is regrettable that the Secretary-General’s reform programme made no mention or explicit reference to mechanisms and means for implementation and assessment of the Agenda. My delegation hopes that this question will be taken into account in the framework of measures envisaged in order to bring about the renewal of the Organization. Lastly, I would like to anticipate the results of our session by saying that, both individually and collectively, we must firmly commit ourselves to implement the decisions and measures that will be taken in the framework of this long-awaited reform. Our consensus will be not a triumph for the ideas of one State or group of States over another, but, rather, the fruitful result of a shared political resolve to adapt our universal Organization to the changes and developments of this end of the century period. Here, and with specific reference to reform of the Security Council, Benin strongly recommends that the following principles should be taken into account: an increase in the membership of the Security Council truly reflecting the political and economic configuration of today’s world; equitable geographical representation of the five regional groups, with the African group entitled to four seats, two permanent and two non-permanent; and protection of democratic and transparent functioning, ultimately involving the elimination of the right of veto. By formulating the 15 priority objectives of his reform programme as a series of profound changes of major scope which should enable the United Nations to embark resolutely on a course of radical reform, the Secretary- General produced a document of undeniably high quality, whose title — “Renewing the United Nations” — is significant in more than one respect. Given the noble and legitimate aspirations of the entire international community for the future of the planet, the Organization certainly needs to be renewed in order to confront effectively and successfully the exciting yet disturbing challenges posed by globalization. Renewing the United Nations requires a new vision of the world, new conceptions and approaches to partnership among nations, and new methods for the Organization and for handling relations among States in a new world. That is the real problem. Those are the real stakes at a time when we are inexorably approaching a new millennium. Globalization is both a phenomenon and a process; it has become the recurrent and omnipresent theme of all debates and of all concerns. Like other members, I noted with particular interest that President Clinton — first at the Waldorf Astoria hotel on the evening of 21 September, then the following day in this Hall — forcefully and germanely stressed the need for the United Nations to ensure that the globalization of the economy does not create deep disparities between rich and poor and that it establishes innovative partnerships between the private sector, non-governmental organizations and international financial institutions. As the representative of a least developed country, Benin, I cannot but welcome this great and noble idea, imbued with generosity, pragmatism and a spirit of solidarity. But, looking the facts in the face, what do we see? When on 18 December 1991 the General Assembly adopted the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, it created a new political covenant, one of whose vital features was the principle of shared responsibility and the international community’s full and complete involvement with Africa with a view to achieving development objectives including a real growth rate of at least 6 per cent per annum in gross domestic product, and a minimum net total of $30 billion in official development assistance for 1992, with an annual increase averaging 4 per cent beginning in 1993. Today, six years after the adoption of the New Agenda, in spite of all the efforts of African countries to make better use of official development assistance, and in spite of the express intention of a number of developed countries to support the development of Africa, the total volume of official development assistance to Africa has declined considerably: by about one third compared with the forecast of $30 billion. It was in this context of the decline in official development assistance that the famous United Nations System-wide Special Initiative for Africa was launched in March 1996 in order to lend fresh momentum to the New Agenda. But it is obvious that this great initiative can be successful only with the support of the international community, through a massive mobilization of financial resources to carry out the programmes and projects that have been set up. While, to be sure, it is first and foremost up to the African countries to make the greater 26 part of the effort, the excessively restrictive procedures and conditionalities for the granting of loans, and the lukewarm reaction of certain creditors to the idea of simply cancelling the foreign debt of poor countries, are obstacles to the effective mobilization of the expected financial resources. In a publication issued at Washington just a few months ago, in May 1997, the International Monetary Fund defined globalization as “the growing economic interdependence of the entire world caused by an increase in the volume and variety of transborder transactions in goods and services, and in international capital flows, along with the rapid and broad dissemination of modern technology”. Welcomed by some, feared by others, globalization has become an unavoidable economic reality for all nations. For most experts and other analysts, this process marks the success of the global spread of an economic liberalization that began in Europe half a century ago with the Marshall Plan. In their view, it brings unprecedented possibilities to billions of people all over the world. For us in Africa, that optimistic vision needs to be tempered, for possibilities are not realities. So that it can become a reality, the harmonious pursuit of the globalization process, in the context of real development for all those billions of people throughout the world, especially in Africa, necessarily presupposes a new international programme of solidarity and cooperation for the poor countries, without which globalization will very soon transform their regions into a poor and marginalized periphery of a hyper-rich and hyper-developed world. In fact, the developed countries are already doing a great deal for Africa, if we consider the sum total of the loans made to the continent through bilateral and multilateral assistance. And yet, contrary to what statistics, curves, graphs and growth rates would have us believe, African populations have not yet felt any tangible improvement of their standard of living in their daily lives. In spite of all this, for the immense majority of Africans the will to survive is stronger than despair, and hope prevails over resignation. The ministerial meeting of the Security Council devoted to Africa, held on the commendable initiative of the United States last 25 September, led to a fruitful exchange of views that showed us a real will on the part of the international community to become more actively, more significantly and more concretely involved in a new type of partnership with Africa in order to contribute to its development. The signs of this real readiness on the part of the developed countries have proliferated in recent years, as we can see, inter alia, from the resolutions of the G-7 adopted in Lyon and in Denver, assistance programmes of the eighth European Development Fund, President Clinton’s initiative for a partnership for economic growth and opportunity and the Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD I), and so on. All in all, it can be said that the will exists to help Africa emerge from poverty and underdevelopment, that concrete actions are being undertaken in this direction and that new commitments are being made. Nevertheless, there still remain, unfortunately, enormous problems, and Africa continues to present to the world the desolate spectacle of endemic poverty, aggravated by crises and fratricidal conflicts. In order to put an end to this distressing situation, Africa’s development partners should envisage a comprehensive and integrated mechanism for flexible, operational and effective financing, free of bureaucratic impediments and red tape, with the aim of establishing a centralized funding entity to receive resources from all sources to be devoted to economic and social development. The end of the cold war, the process of economic globalization and the progressive realization of the concept of sustainable development offer the opportunity for profound change, calling into question some of the traditional solutions and conventional answers to development problems. In the dark centuries of the slave trade, Africa contributed blood, sweat and the toil of its strongest arms to the building of the bases of the economy of the New World. The collective memory of humankind must not forget this important historical fact. Today the developed countries have the moral duty to be as concerned as Africans themselves about the destiny of Africa, not to abandon Africa along the roadside of globalization and to make available to it part of their enormous material, technological and financial strength, in order to support Africa’s efforts in the struggle to emerge from underdevelopment and to enter the modern age. In order that the implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in 27 the 1990s (UN-NADAF), the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative on Africa, Agenda 21 and other programmes of action can be truly successful, it will be necessary to establish a global system of operations and financing for Africa, like the Marshall Plan, which contributed greatly to the reconstruction and economic and social recovery of Europe after the Second World War. The establishment of this mechanism before the year 2000 will make it possible for Africa to stride confidently, not slouch, into the twenty-first century. Shortly before the statement that was made on 5 June 1947 at Harvard University by General George Marshall to define the foundations of his well-known European Recovery Programme, President Harry Truman stated: “Our duty is to help free peoples to fashion their own destiny in their own way. I believe that our assistance must be first of all economic and financial, because this is essential to economic stability and political order.” Fifty years later, this magnificent and noble spirit of solidarity, displayed voluntarily by the great American people and its Government, still retains all its validity and all its historical meaning. There are cases in which, because of the requirements of its own unfolding, history repeats itself. Here at the end of a century, we are experiencing one such case: it is necessary to meet the urgent need for a new Marshall Plan for Africa. And the upcoming second Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD II) could provide one of the best opportunities to do so. If the international community works resolutely in this direction, we will have laid the solid and indestructible foundations for a road on which we will all be able to march triumphantly into the third millennium. For its part the Government of Benin, while awaiting the fulfilment of that hope, has developed the concept of a shared social minimum level in order methodically and effectively to take actions and measures aimed at eliminating poverty, hunger, disease and illiteracy, providing adequate housing, guaranteeing productive employment, improving standards and conditions of living and ensuring the sustainable use of natural resources. This concept was the subject of an international symposium, supported by the United Nations system, which was held in Cotonou from 4 to 6 August 1997. The consolidation of our process of democratic renewal, which began after the historic National Conference of the Active Forces of the Nation in February 1990, necessitates immediate and short-term social and economic successes. That is why we are endeavouring, with our limited resources, to take multifaceted actions to improve the living and working conditions of our rural and urban populations. However, we know that we can rely on international cooperation, founded not only on solidarity, but on mutual interest and partnership, to overcome the difficulties confronting us, to support our efforts at economic and social recovery, to build a State genuinely based on the rule of law and to construct a free, democratic, modern and prosperous nation.   ﻿My delegation welcomes the experience and expertise which Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko brings to the leadership of this session of the General Assembly, and would like to applaud his predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia, for his outstanding contribution during the fifty-first session. We feel a quiet sense of elation that the Secretary- General has emerged as the personification of the new possibilities of the United Nations. His recent succession to the distinguished position of Secretary-General of this body is symbolic of the new vision and the new order which heralds our entry into the twenty-first century. Our historical moment is a defining one. Change has brought us to the stage at which we can either transform or be transformed. All of us — large as well as small nations, individuals as well as Governments — are challenged to make a decisive break with the old ways of doing and seeing things. The people of our planet continue to yearn for justice, equality and fairness. The human spirit continues to thirst for all that is good and beautiful. The soul of humankind is still seeking to reinvent itself in ways that are noble, kind, compassionate and caring. That is the new wave that is beginning to swell on the cusp of the new millennium, and we can discern its gathering momentum in the emotive milestones of the past few months. The expression of universal public grief infused with private intensity over the deaths of Mother Teresa and Diana, Princess of Wales and the donation of $1 billion by Ted Turner to United Nations charitable causes — these are the affirmations of the emergent humanist temperament of the new age. In these times, this body must welcome the inspiration of those who, by their example, generosity, selflessness and courage, seek to protect the defenceless in a bid to reshape the horizons of our common humanity. It is a global wave sweeping local shores as well as distant ones. In my own tropical corner of our global village, Saint Lucia, on 23 May 1997 the people elected a new Government with a decisive mandate predicated on a vision of hope, change and possibility. The wave of people’s aspirations at the national level is faced with its own counter-turbulence in the conduct of relations among States. Arrayed against this popular impulse for humanism in affairs of state is the assertion of all that has been selfish, greedy and exploitative. The powerful continue to parade their might without any regard for others. They exercise their influence without any compassion, and accumulate their wealth without any charity. The icons of free trade, market liberalization and economic liberalism represent the hardening of the arteries of human conscience in the sphere of commerce. The movement away from concerns of social and economic justice to the preoccupation with market forces and economic rationality is leading inexorably to a new world order at odds with the impulse of the world’s billions for a more caring and compassionate world. At the level of the international system, we are witnessing a rolling back of the structures of social responsibility, the progressive erosion of the capacity to respond and the annihilation of the will to act humanely. We see the inability to care for the welfare of the people, the apathy towards their growing material deprivation and, most frighteningly, the calculated institutional insensitivity to the plight of the disadvantaged who wish to continue to earn with dignity and by the sweat of their brows. There is no better example of this callous disregard than the situation facing the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries, and in particular the banana producers of the Caribbean. Only last month, the small banana-producing countries of the Caribbean Community received a particularly harsh and crushing blow, when the appeals board of the World Trade Organization (WTO) upheld an earlier finding that the preferential treatment accorded in the European market to bananas of the Member States of the ACP contravened World Trade Organization rules on free trade. The intent behind the current move towards globalization as manifested in the World Trade Organization is evidently most commendable. Indeed, Saint Lucia was among the founding members of the WTO. We were led to believe that the World Trade Organization would help raise the living standards of our peoples and, by emulating the ideals of the United Nations, would promote fairness in world trade. It was our hope that it would end, once and for all, the law of the jungle as the dominant feature of international commercial relations. In short, it was hoped that the WTO would establish a standard of arbitration premised on fairness, civilized negotiation of vital interests and the inculcation of equity in international trade and commerce. The WTO ruling on the European banana regime is nothing short of a capitulation to the machinations of those who are blinkered by free trade and sheer greed. 22 We speak in these strong terms because the world community must understand that the WTO, and the complainants to the European banana regime, completely and steadfastly ignored the fact that the import of its ruling is the economic and social destruction of a number of small Member States of this body that together enjoy a miniscule 2.5 per cent of the world trade in bananas and only 5 per cent of the European market. Consider for a moment the flaws in the process through which the WTO’s dispute settlement body sought to resolve this issue. The initial panel did not have a single representative from a developing country, although the matter was of utmost importance to developing countries. To render fair play even more remote, the appellate board was chaired by an American, despite the fact that the principal complainant was the United States of America. While that may have been permissible under the rules, surely good sense and fairness should have dictated that it was nothing but highly improper and undesirable. But then, even the nature of the major complainant was improper: the United States of America does not produce a single banana for export. Yet, while it activated and participated in the proceedings, we, the banana-producing countries, were denied the right to full participation and were relegated to the sidelines as spectators. The WTO has dismally failed to match up to the commendable goals which inspired its creation. The implementation of the ruling will bring about a generalized reduction in the living standards of our peoples and an acceleration of poverty. Far from providing reassurance of a civilized approach to resolving world trade disputes, the ruling leaves a lingering suspicion that “might” will always be “right” and that the strong and powerful will always be able to use the system to achieve their own ends, regardless of the human dislocation and suffering that result. If the World Trade Organization is to be of any value to us small, developing countries, there must be a fundamental reform of its system of dispute settlement. This is essential, because the implications of the scope of the ruling on bananas are not confined to bananas. The ruling raises questions about other import arrangements for agricultural goods as well as the future of trade and development cooperation agreements between rich and poor countries. The real challenge to the WTO is not how effective its Dispute Settlement Body can be in rigidly applying the letter of its regulations, but, rather, whether the process by which decisions are arrived at is perceived as being fair. The system must be reformed so that it takes account of the consequences of the implementation of its rulings. It must of necessity consider the impact of its decisions, particularly when, as in the case of the ruling on the banana regime, the affected countries have small, vulnerable and fragile economies. Trade and development must, in the final analysis, be about the development of people. Therefore, the WTO criteria for settling disputes must be redesigned to take into account social, health, cultural and environmental issues. If national security issues can be raised as a reason why the law of one powerful country should not be brought before WTO jurisdiction, then why should the WTO not take into account the special social and economic circumstances of small, vulnerable countries in its dispute deliberations? What is the point of the WTO’s Dispute Settlement Body rigidly applying rules, when in so doing it takes decisions which are in direct contrast to the very principles which justify its existence? In such a situation the principles become worthless and the organization becomes amenable to manipulation. We do not seek international charity for our banana farmers. We seek only fairness and opportunity. We are not irrevocably opposed to free trade, but we need fair trade. We are a proud people seeking to earn our living in as honest a manner as the wealth of nations permits. The nations of the European Union entered into a partnership for development with us when, together, we signed the Lomé Convention. We call upon them not to cast aside their solemn commitments and obligations under that Convention, as they respond to those who want this most unfair ruling by the World Trade Organization implemented immediately and in its entirety. We are heartened by the statements made so far by the European Commission expressing the European Union’s deep concern about the negative political, economic and social effects of the WTO ruling on a number of countries from the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) Group of States. We take comfort from the Commission’s expression of its intention to take these factors into account, and to stand by the European Union’s international obligations and the principles of its development policy. We also welcome the statements of support for Caribbean banana producers from the European Parliament and its call for the revision of the criteria used by the WTO in the resolution of trade disputes. We look forward to working with the European Union to find a formula which will allow us continued access to the banana market in a manner which will 23 permit our farmers to continue earning a decent and dignified living. We urge the European Union to be steadfast in protecting the spirit and substance of its obligations under the Lomé Convention, to remain committed to ensuring development and equity in international economic relations, and to remain faithful to its ACP friends. Such are the challenges confronting those who are small and weak, yet proud. It is within such a context of an uncertain international system that my country has to shape its foreign policy. The changing characteristics of the international system have necessitated that we redefine the boundaries of our alliances. We must look beyond the sea of uncertainty to the mountains of possibility. The contemporary confluence of forces challenges us to create new relationships to assist in our social and economic development. Having been forced out of our traditional partnerships, we must find new friends and reconstruct relationships. In this process, we must be guided by the imperative of finding and mobilizing new sources of investment that are predicated on creating new paths to sustainable growth. For us, foreign policy is about building bridges to other people, other cultures and other markets. It is about contributing to the emergence of a new climate of tolerance and international understanding; it is about matching domestic need with international possibility. Consistent with these basic principles, Saint Lucia has proceeded in a direction in which the majority of the States of the world have already gone by establishing diplomatic links with the People’s Republic of China. Saint Lucia will always cherish the principles of respect for sovereignty, territorial integrity and the rule of international law. All countries, regardless of size, must have the comfort of these irrevocable principles and be secure in the confidence that the conduct of nations will be guided by them. It is in the context of these basic principles that we urge the United States of America to re-examine some of its recent policies towards the States of the Caribbean. Its lead role in the challenge to our banana marketing regime has damaged our peoples’ confidence in its declarations of friendship. Its new immigration laws are causing apprehension and dislocation for thousands of persons who originated from the Caribbean, and is eroding the bridges between our peoples. The imminent deportation of persons who have lived for decades in the United States will create a humanitarian problem of mass proportions. This is no longer a domestic matter. The consequences for the human rights of those affected have transformed it into a subject for international concern. In addition, the deportation of persons who have become hardened criminals to lands they do not know as home is further rocking the social and economic fabric of our democracies. If there is a law of unintended consequences, the United States of America must accept the negative repercussions of its policies. It must therefore embark on corrective action to undo the damage which these policies have unleashed on the peoples of the Caribbean community. It is our concern for fairness, equity and democratization in the conduct of international relations that has caused Saint Lucia to embrace and support the process of reform of the United Nations itself. Saint Lucia firmly believes that if the United Nations is to adequately address the challenges of the coming century, then three things must happen. First, Member States must honour their financial obligations to the body. Saint Lucia continues to believe that the United Nations financial crisis can be alleviated if all Member States, large and small, rich and poor, do so in a timely manner, without conditions. A United Nations that is financially weak, that lurches from one budget crisis to another, is in no condition to confront and overcome the challenges facing mankind. If there is to be financial reform, then the precarious financial existence of the United Nations must be consigned to the dustbin of history. Secondly, the United Nations itself must take steps to become more efficient and effective. We need a United Nations where waste is abhorred, where the churning out of documents for documents’ sake, at a cost of millions of dollars, is no longer a priority. We need a United Nations that is leaner, but more capable of making the maximum use of its resources. Thirdly, the United Nations must become more responsive to the needs of all its Member States. For the majority of the United Nations Member States, the need is for sustainable development, for the eradication of poverty and of illiteracy. We need a United Nations that will show an even greater sensitivity to those needs. The United Nations must also answer the call for wider representation of the world peoples on the Security Council. Saint Lucia wishes to reiterate its support for an 24 increase in the membership of the Security Council to reflect the universal membership of the General Assembly and to ensure the balanced representation of the developing world. Saint Lucia applauds the initiatives of the Secretary- General in his proposals to reform the United Nations to inspire greater confidence in its potential. Saint Lucia is particularly interested in the proposed “dividend for development”, and welcomes the idea that a large portion of United Nations resources should be allocated to development, particularly to meet the needs of developing countries. It is our hope, however, that this proposed “dividend for development” will not become like the peace dividend — a noble idea that is yet to materialize. It is a moral responsibility of those who are strong to protect the weak and vulnerable. The international community, through the United Nations, must accept its responsibility to establish and maintain mechanisms that will protect the small, vulnerable economies of this world as they seek to build sustainable economies for the twenty- first century. Saint Lucia has begun to do its part through the diversification of its economic base, through action to reduce unemployment, poverty, population growth and to improve the educational standards of our peoples. We, too, want to be better placed to exploit the new employment opportunities provided by the revolution in information and communications technology. But the United Nations must also play its part by not forgetting that small island developing States like Saint Lucia have peculiar needs that it must be vigilant to protect. We applaud the work being carried out by the Commonwealth on updating its report on the vulnerability of small States and in revising the Vulnerability Index of Small States, and we welcome the new report, “A Future for Small States Overcoming Vulnerability”. Saint Lucia notes the preparation being made for the special session of the General Assembly in 1999 to review outstanding chapters and issues of the Barbados Programme of Action. However, we must express our disappointment over the lack of progress in implementing the Programme of Action, and Saint Lucia urges the international community to support the mobilization of external resources to implement the plan. In recent times, the vulnerability of small States to natural disasters could not have been more clearly demonstrated than in the case of the Caribbean island of Montserrat, whose very existence is threatened by an intermittently raging volcano. Since the fifty-first session of the General Assembly, the situation in Montserrat has deteriorated. Half of the island’s population has had to flee. The plight of the people of Montserrat is a human tragedy that the world ignores because, once again, its setting is another small island State which seems to be in a remote corner of the international community. The people of Montserrat badly need sympathy, understanding and support. The establishment of a Caribbean family of nations is a historical imperative for Saint Lucia. For this reason, we shall continue to strengthen the integration process in the Caribbean and the closer association of our peoples. We have a vision of the entire Caribbean Basin merging as one nation, becoming one family, irrespective of the division of language, size, trade and political traditions and relationships. We may be small, but we are making our contribution to the enhancement of civilization. The noble ideals and goals of the United Nations and its Charter will be meaningless if the international community fails to protect small, vulnerable developing countries like Saint Lucia from the predatory actions of those who seek to destroy the livelihood of our peoples in the name of free trade. These lofty goals will be hollow if, in the rush to espouse globalization and the liberalization of trade, the special circumstances of the smaller, poorer States of this world are scorned, and their special needs are bulldozed and smashed by the injustice of international tribunals and the myopia of richer States. Saint Lucia does not wish to be trapped in a cycle of dependence. It merely wishes to be given the opportunity to be self-sustaining in this global order. The noble aspirations of the United Nations will rank among the greatest failures of the twentieth century if, by failing to be involved in the control of the process of globalization, it allows its smaller, poorer Members to be marginalized. The goal of sustainable development must not be allowed to become yet another myth of our times.  ﻿In my address to this noble Assembly last year, I drew attention to the significance of virtue and, furthermore, to the enhancement of the release 11 of the power which resides in virtue, through the supply of appropriate means. Moreover, I invited reflection on the quintessential sameness of all humankind and urged that this, together with a genuine commitment to virtue, be adopted as the guiding principles of the General Assembly as it addresses and deliberates upon the realities of human interaction in our contemporary world. As it is for any individual society or nation, so it is for the international global community. Ethics is the science whose aim is to produce the good man and woman, while politics is the science which aims at fashioning the good society. Thus, politics must be founded upon and unceasingly informed by ethics. Doubtless this is an ideal. Nonetheless, it is an ideal we must constantly strive to achieve if we are to realize peace within and among our nations — peace, which was described by Thomas Aquinas as the tranquillity of order. In this era of accelerating change in so many areas in every portion of our diverse global community, it is of singular importance to the well-being of each of our individual national communities, as it is for the overall international global community, that we recognize, observe and be faithful to those values and principles which, inherently, are unchanging. One such unchanging value is that of right — moral right: what Plato conceived of as the virtue of justice, and what in Roman law was characterized as the jus, or moral law. Indeed, it is rather significant that Plato perceived the whole function of education as being to elicit the best things that are latent in the soul, and to do so by directing the soul to the right things. I am highly honoured and deeply pleased to address, on behalf of the Government and the people of Grenada, this Assembly at its fifty-second regular session, during the course of which change must be a transcending theme, as also must be the initiation, institution and prudent management of change in the pursuit and conduct of international affairs. On behalf of my delegation, I express to this Assembly the warm greetings of the Government and the people of Grenada. I also express our sincere congratulations to Mr. Kofi Annan on his accession to the office of Secretary-General, as well as on his manner of addressing the duties deriving therefrom. We rejoice in his demonstration of virtue, and we believe that his profound knowledge of the United Nations augurs well for his leadership in pursuance of international peace and security. My Government is heartened by his commitment to the reform of the Organization and is reassured by his efforts to fashion a more effective and efficient United Nations system. We are hopeful that one of the benefits which will accrue from such an improved system will be the enhancement of the economic viability of small developing States, such as ours; and we further hope that his efforts to realize the system envisaged will not be frustrated by the withholding of the substantial overall payments which are due. My delegation joins me in extending warm congratulations to Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko of Ukraine on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session. We commend Mr. Razali Ismail of Malaysia for his exemplary conduct of the proceedings of the fifty-first session. The rapidly changing global environment presents grave challenges to small States, especially small island States such as Grenada. It also does so for the United Nations, whose very institution was prompted by the adoption of the ethic of a confraternity of nations informed by a common subscription to the concept of the empowerment of virtue through the furnishing of adequate and appropriate means in order that right might prevail in the international community. In this latter regard, attention is especially invited to the notion of global trade and liberalization as it is currently regulated by the World Trade Organization (WTO), with its inherent inconsistencies, which operate to the disadvantage of the smaller economies. The WTO rules relating now to the products of agriculture and agro- industry bear testimony to the injustice inflicted upon those of us who live and labour within the confines of small economies — witness the recent ruling on bananas, which underscores the insensitivity displayed by way of the challenge which triggered it. Moreover, the Uruguay Round Agreements require a massive legislative agenda on Grenada’s part — as they undoubtedly do for most developing countries. Our national laws in the areas of trade in goods and services as well as intellectual property must be reviewed and extensive legislative changes made. Thus we must acquire the necessary legal expertise to work on this project until implementation is fully accomplished - and all this by the end of the year 2000. 12 We shall, of course, make full use of the assistance that is available through WTO as well as that offered by international bodies such as the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). Nonetheless, it must be explicitly stated that, in Grenada’s view, the Uruguay Round Agreements have created for small developing States significantly more burdens than the benefits they are proclaimed to bring under the banner of global free trade — at least now, and for the foreseeable future, unless corrective measures are soon instituted. My Government continues in its efforts to restructure the Grenada economy and is pursuing a programme of economic diversification. This involves broadening and enhancing sectors such as agro-processing, light manufacturing, crafts, services — including offshore financial services — tourism and agriculture. Nevertheless, my Government is deeply aware that the success of its economic policies will depend significantly on the support of the multilateral financial institutions and also of friendly countries in respect of training and the dissemination of knowledge and skills, as well as the setting up of enterprises and facilities that are strategic to secondary economic growth. Accordingly, my Government is pleased to have recorded in the annals of the Assembly, its gratitude for, and appreciation of, the assistance which Grenada has so far received, as well as that which we are currently receiving, from the European Union through the Lomé Agreement, and from other friendly countries. Despite constraints such as I have referred to, as well as others, my Government continues in its efforts to stimulate employment and enhance employability. In the latter regard, we are now in the process of institutionalizing on-the-job training for our unemployed youth, whilst expanding our formal programmes for skills training. As for stimulating employment, special emphasis is being placed on self-employment — and this by way of fostering the small enterprise and micro-enterprise sectors. For we are convinced that the development of these sectors is crucial to our preferred process for national development. We believe that through such endeavours our people will grow in dignity and self-reliance. My Government will continue to provide an enabling environment for the private sector to thrive and expand. And we seek the active partnership of the multilateral institutions as well as of the international community, through joint ventures, technological transfers and financial and technical assistance to provide the impetus to sustained economic growth. Democracy and good governance can flourish only in an environment of peace — an environment characterized by the tranquillity of order; not an order that is imposed, but an order which springs from mutual trust and mutual regard amongst the individuals who compose the particular society; an order which is constantly revitalized and continually enhanced by mutual love; an order which resonates to the truth that “My origin is their origin, my conscience is their conscience, my contention is their contention, and my pilgrimage is their pilgrimage”. In this context, we invite attention to the apparent emergence recently of terrorism in the Caribbean region, with the bombings in Cuba. The kind of order referred to would inherently involve individual social and economic well-being: true prosperity, individual and societal. At the international global community level, such order is realizable only by way of a concept and praxis for a new global human order such as was enunciated by the late President Cheddi Jagan of Guyana and corroborated by the leaders of the Group of 7 countries in their communiqué “Making a Success of Globalization for the Benefit of All” (A/51/208, annex II). The pursuit of true politics in relation to the fashioning of the confraternity of nations requires that we strive to institute such a new global human order. Within the compass of such a global human order, there inevitably would be the eradication of the crippling and strangulating debt burden which afflicts so devastatingly the very poor and so dehumanizingly the poorest countries of our world. So also would be action against environmental degradation, and towards sustainable economic development, especially in the poorer countries and particularly in small island developing States. Similarly, as to the eradication of poverty worldwide — and, in this regard it is fitting that I repeat here the observation of the Right Honourable Clare Short, United Kingdom Secretary of State for International Development: 13 “A world that has one in five of its people living in abject poverty is certainly not just and it is also dangerously unstable”. Natural disasters, particularly in small island States, require special concern on the part of the confraternity of nations. The devastation recently experienced in Montserrat trumpets the need for a United Nations programme to deal with the aftermath of such natural destruction. Grenada welcomes the recent United Nations initiative in respect of Haiti, and salutes every country participating in this noble endeavour, as well as the United Nations and its officers, whose vision informed that initiative. We welcome also the steps towards achieving peace between parties in countries in Central America, and we applaud them. Indeed, as the current Chairman of the Association of Caribbean States, Grenada rejoices in such action. For, through the Association, we in the Caribbean region seek to widen and deepen the process of integration amongst the island States of the Caribbean and those mainland States whose shores are lapped by the Caribbean Sea — and this includes Cuba. My Government is acutely mindful that poor States are peculiarly vulnerable to the violation of their territorial integrity, since they can ill afford the wherewithal to ensure non-encroachment in the vicinity of their borders. And the larger such poor continental States are, the greater that particular vulnerability. Similarly, for small island States, in particular those of the Caribbean, where the threat is not so much to territorial integrity but to security, that threat is posed by those engaged in the illicit business of narcotics trafficking, both by way of buying and selling. Our small island States of the Caribbean have become primary and secondary transshipment centres en route from the large producers to the commensurately large consumers. My Government therefore asks earnestly that this noble Assembly address this matter in accordance with the ethic of the true politics relating to the overall international community of humankind. The current United Nations International Drug Control Programme is indeed commendable, and Grenada is pleased to be actively participating in it at the pace we can best afford. Nonetheless, it cannot but be admitted that this Programme does not offer, much less provide, the protection which is needed for our people — particularly our youth — against the ravishment of drug use and the blight which eventually afflicts the small-scale transporters, or so-called mules. Surely this process of transshipment can be severely curtailed, if not completely eradicated, through planned, concerted international action. My Government’s concern for youth and children is not confined to Grenada. Nor is it limited to our brothers and sisters in the Caribbean Community or in the Association of Caribbean States. Our concern embraces youth and children everywhere. Accordingly, we condemn the exploitation of youth and children in any form. We say no to the abuse of children for pornography and prostitution. My Government welcomes the recent conclusion of the Convention on the comprehensive banning of anti- personnel landmines, and we urge a significant acceleration in the controlled destruction of those mines which are relics of campaigns of war of one scale or another. In relation to the Security Council, Grenada unequivocally supports its expansion in a manner such as would facilitate the realization of true politics in the overall international community. This, we believe, would involve an increase in both the permanent and non- permanent categories of membership. Both such increases, in our view, should be characterized by a significant presence of developing countries. For, in Grenada’s view, what is required in the reformed Security Council is not more of the same kind of distribution of perception, but more equity among the component parts of the spectrum of perception. The very notion of equity inevitably calls forth the notion of justice. In the context of justice in the United Nations, there arises quite effortlessly the case of the Republic of China on Taiwan. To all who subscribe to the principle of the right of a people to self-determination, the case for membership in the United Nations for the Republic of China on Taiwan is a compelling one. Indeed, it is incontestable. For, some 50 years ago, these people chose self-determination. They voted with their feet as they moved from their homes on mainland China to the island of Taiwan, and today 21.3 million people practise democracy in the Republic of China on Taiwan. Their economic achievements are well and widely known, 14 as is their willingness to participate in the international community as a Member of the United Nations. What more is required for the Republic of China to be admitted to United Nations membership? One may well ask. My answer: justice. The mention of justice evokes recollection of two very insightful observations which deserve to be shared in this noble Assembly. First, Reinhold Niebur, in his Foreword to “The Children of Light and the Children of Darkness”, offered the following comment on justice: “Man’s capacity for justice makes democracy possible; but Man’s inclination to injustice makes democracy necessary.” Well might we enquire as to the origin of this inclination to injustice. But the success or failure to identify that origin notwithstanding, an effective manner of dealing with that inclination is provided by Plato’s construct for education, which is centred on exposure of the soul to the right things. And second, in his Foreword to Allan Bloom’s thought-provoking study on American higher education — the number-one bestseller of its time, one decade ago, Saul Bellow offered a view that is particularly pertinent to the notion of exposure of the soul to the right things. Saul Bellow contends that: “In the greatest confusion there is an open channel to the soul ... The channel is always there, and it is our business to keep it open, to have access to the deepest part of ourselves — to that part of us which is conscious of a higher consciousness ... The soul has to find and hold its ground against hostile forces, sometimes embodied in ideas which frequently deny its very existence, and which indeed often seem to be trying to annul it altogether.” The Assembly may well ask, “How does the soul hold its ground?” My reply: through virtue and constant exposure to the right things. Let right prevail. May God bless the President of, and everyone participating in, this fifty-second regular session of this noble Assembly, which through His grace will be a transforming blessing to our world.  ﻿It is a special privilege and honour for me to address the General Assembly at the beginning of its fifty-second session. At the outset I would like to extend my sincere congratulations to you, Sir, as the new President of the General Assembly, confident that your extensive and proven diplomatic experience and skills will play an important role in the work of the Assembly. I should also like to express our gratitude to the President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session, His Excellency Mr. Razali Ismail, whose devoted and vigorous work has shown that United Nations reform is much more than mere rhetoric, and who set a new standard of performance in the General Assembly. As a Central European and Mediterranean country, Croatia highlights as its strategic priorities overall stability in the region, full integration into Euro-Atlantic institutions and the assertion of its position in the new post-cold-war Europe. Hence the special attention my Government pays to the policy of good neighbourliness and the development of stable relations with all neighbouring countries, based on the principles of full respect for the existing internationally recognized borders, for minority rights and for the peaceful resolution of existing and possible disputes in the spirit of the United Nations Charter. Today I can point out with satisfaction that Croatia has concluded dozens of bilateral agreements with its neighbours, and relations with each of our immediate neighbours are being fully regulated and are steadily improving. Croatia hosted two large-scale United Nations peace operations: the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) and the United Nations Confidence Restoration Operation in Croatia (UNCRO). The United Nations Transitional Administration for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Sirmium (UNTAES), in the Danubian area, and the United Nations Mission of Observers in Prevlaka (UNMOP) are still present. Croatia has also played an important role in facilitating the Stabilization Force (SFOR) operation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I should like to take this opportunity to reiterate my Government’s sincere gratitude for all the efforts that were made by the United Nations to stop the war in Croatia and alleviate its consequences, as well as to express my country’s sincere sympathies to the families of the “blue helmets” who have fallen while attending to their lofty duties. I am very grateful for the opportunity to express our appreciation and thanks to the United Nations Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his peace efforts in Croatia. As a United Nations official in the field and as Under- Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations he made a major personal contribution to overcoming the crisis. Our great thanks go to UNTAES and Mr. Jacques Klein, until recently Transitional Administrator in Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Sirmium, whose vigorous work, leadership skill and successful cooperation with the Croatian Government have been instrumental in the peaceful reintegration of these areas into Croatia. During the many months of the United Nations presence in Croatia and elsewhere in the area of the former Yugoslavia, my country had a chance to see for itself all the potential and the weaknesses of peacekeeping operations. It has been proven beyond any doubt that a peace operation can be successful only if its mandate is clearly defined, in terms of its goal as well as its time- frame, and if it is actively and fully supported by the 12 Security Council and the Secretary-General, and spearheaded by an uncompromising leadership explicitly determined to use all means required for the completion of its mission. This knowledge has been gained at a high political, material and, worst of all, human price, so it is to be hoped that it will be wisely exploited in the future. For its part, Croatia is anxious to step out of its role as a country hosting peacekeeping operations and instead assume the role of an active participant in such operations elsewhere. Here and now I can confirm the readiness of my country to join the roster of United Nations Member States whose troops participate in international peace endeavours. The fifty-second session of the General Assembly is taking place against a background of great obligations and equally great expectations regarding the reform of the United Nations system. The timely and far-reaching proposals put forward by the Secretary-General have opened the door for reforms. Croatia gives its firm support to his proposals, and we are ready to render any assistance needed in introducing the kind of changes we owe both to those who laid the foundations of this Organization and to future generations. As for the need to rationalize the work of the General Assembly and reduce its huge agenda, Croatia has put forward a proposal to delete the item on the General Assembly’s agenda entitled “The situation in the occupied territories of Croatia”, as its title and topic no longer correspond to the situation on the ground, which makes it obsolete. In view of the geopolitical realities, Croatia advocates an increase in the number of Security Council members, both permanent and non-permanent. Half a century of old stereotypes ought to be phased out. Croatia supports the idea of granting permanent member status to Germany and Japan, with the right to permanent membership being kept in mind for those parts of the world, primarily Africa, which for more than 50 years, without any justification, have been deprived of permanent Security Council representation. Furthermore, my country supports the idea of assigning one more seat on the Security Council to the Eastern European Group. Croatia strongly supports the reaffirmation and full implementation of the universality of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). My country was pleased to note that during this year’s NPT Preparatory Committee sessions some progress was achieved with regard to the principle of non-first use, especially against non-nuclear-weapon States, and it calls on the nuclear States to give due consideration to proposals to have this principle codified in a legally binding document. In May 1996, the Review Conference of the States Parties to the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or To Have Indiscriminate Effects amended Protocol II on landmines. Croatia, which has played an active role during the Ottawa process from the beginning, and which has already put in place its own unilateral moratorium on landmines, fully supports all the efforts which ultimately led to the decision at the recent Oslo conference to adopt the text of a global treaty banning anti-personnel landmines. Croatia’s preoccupation with the global landmine problem is also motivated by personal affliction. Millions of mines laid in the formerly occupied territories of Croatia during the war continue to pose a direct threat, especially to the most vulnerable: civilians. It is also a great impediment to the reconstruction of war-affected areas. The clearing of mines in these areas is a painstaking process, and, in spite of our best efforts, it will take many years to complete. Unfortunately, a lack of specialized equipment means that the process cannot move any faster. Having said this, allow me to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to all those who have thus far provided financial and other aid towards alleviating the landmine problem in my country, and to make a further appeal for any aid — material, financial or professional — which could help us expedite the mine- clearing process. In this context, I would like to express my Government’s appreciation for the efforts of the United Nations Mine Action Centre in Zagreb and the United Nations Department of Humanitarian Affairs for their efforts in helping us launch this process. Quality of life, today and in the future, will greatly depend on success in the protection of human rights it both international and national levels. Protection and promotion of human rights — a cause in which the United Nations has played an indispensable role — is necessary in order to guarantee international stability and security. The Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights has successfully enhanced the role of the United Nations in this important field and, at this juncture, I would like, on behalf of the Croatian Government, to congratulate Mrs. Mary Robinson upon her appointment to this post. Because of her excellent qualifications and personal integrity, we are confident that she will perform her duties admirably. Croatia’s own human rights situation should be evaluated in the context of the exceptional circumstances of its recent history. Despite the trying circumstances of its inception, the Republic of Croatia has managed to build the foundations of a democratic society based on respect for human rights. In this regard, I can announce that in the coming month of October Croatia will ratify the European Convention on Human Rights. There are, of course, many outstanding issues, largely stemming from the war of aggression waged against Croatia. These include the return of displaced persons and refugees; identification of missing persons; the rights of ethnic Croats in neighbouring States; and the return of all Croatian Serbs who left Croatia at the instigation and under the orders of their leaders and who wish to return to Croatia. The Government of the Republic of Croatia intends to continue to deal with all these issues in keeping with its international human rights obligations as well as its legitimate concerns for the security of the State and the safety and welfare of all its citizens. As a victim of aggression, Croatia advocates the need — and has even come up with its own initiatives — to set up an international tribunal for the prosecution of war crimes committed in Croatia and Bosnian and Herzegovina. Croatia has been cooperating with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia since its foundation. The Tribunal’s Office has opened in Zagreb. The Croatian Government has established its own Office for Cooperation with the Tribunal and appointed observers to the Tribunal. Moreover, the Constitutional Law on Cooperation with the International Tribunal has been adopted. Croatia’s principled position is to cooperate with the Tribunal within its obligations as defined in international law and in accordance with the relevant resolutions and the statute of the Tribunal adopted by the Security Council. However, Croatia cannot be completely satisfied with the work of the Hague Tribunal to date. The charges raised so far, and the ethnic composition of the persons being tried in The Hague at present, do not properly reflect the responsibility of the sides involved in the conflict or the extent of the war crimes committed. On the other hand, by trying to subpoena the States and their high officials, the Tribunal has gone beyond its own statute and international law. Current peace operations in the territory of Croatia — UNTAES and UNMOP — are considered successful by my Government. Under the Basic Agreement signed between the central authorities of the Republic of Croatia and the Serbs from the Croatian Danubian region, and pursuant to relevant Security Council resolutions, the two-year UNTAES mandate expires on 15 January 1998. Croatia holds that at this moment there are no reasons whatsoever for any prolongation of the UNTAES mandate beyond 15 January 1998. We are also firmly convinced that this mission will be fully completed on time and will go down in history as one of the most successful United Nations peacekeeping operations. The results achieved under the auspices of the United Nations and with the full cooperation of the Croatian authorities can be described as highly satisfactory. Demobilization has been completed. Local elections have been held through which the Croatian Danubian region has been reintegrated into the legal and political system of the country. Local Government has largely been transferred to the newly elected and constituted bodies. Rules have been defined and designed in cooperation between the Republic of Croatia, UNTAES and UNHCR to enable a dignified, safe and organized return of displaced persons and refugees to their homes in and out of the Croatian Danubian region. So far a total of 1,500 displaced Croats have returned to the Croatian Danubian region, and a total of 8,000 Serbs have returned from the region to their homes elsewhere in Croatia. The return of displaced persons and the international presence will continue after the departure of UNTAES. At the invitation of the Croatian authorities, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) has undertaken to monitor the developments in the Croatian Danubian region after 15 January 1998. The reintegration of the Croatian Danubian region has never been an easy or simple process. The Republic of Croatia and all its citizens, especially the population of the Croatian Danubian region, including the persons expelled from it, owe a debt of gratitude to UNTAES and all the States whose troops have participated in this highly successful operation. The mandate of UNMOP, which has been given the task of monitoring the demilitarization of the area from both sides of the southernmost border between the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, has been helpful in stabilizing security in that area and in creating conditions for a lasting settlement there through bilateral talks. The Republic of Croatia has shown full understanding for the interests of the Federal 14 Republic of Yugoslavia with regard to the security of the Boka Kotorska Bay, while being concerned for its own security in the Dubrovnik hinterland. In this regard, UNMOP has played an important role, but it will not be possible to deal with the outstanding problems through endless prolongations of the United Nations mandate. With relief and satisfaction, Croatia welcomes the easing of the crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and remains firmly committed to the principles and implementation of the Washington and Dayton Accords. My Government gives its active support to preserving the integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as to the consolidation of the federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a foothold and framework for the survival and well-being of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The role of the international community, especially that of the United Nations and the countries participating in SFOR, in the creation of peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina is irreplaceable at this stage of the peace process. Too much effort, resources and prestige have been invested in peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and too much suffering has been experienced by the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to allow any risk which may undermine what has been achieved in Dayton and in its wake. Croatia will persist and persevere in its role as an active peace agent in the region, expecting other parties involved in the peace process to fulfil their obligations. Those standing in the way of the Dayton Accords and continuing to defy the integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a community of two equal entities and three constituent peoples have to be confronted with the same uncompromising determination of the international community, and, if required, with the same measures as were earlier applied in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which proved to be entirely necessary and productive. The economic reconstruction of the country — in which the international community should play an even more vital role — is also of special importance. The agenda of the fifty-second session of the General Assembly is extensive, and a great deal of work lies ahead of us. There is also an opportunity before us to have this session of the General Assembly recorded in the annals of the Organization as a landmark in the Organization's development. Croatia will be only too glad to help make this come true.  ﻿Allow me at the outset, Sir, to congratulate you on your election as President of the fifty-second session of the General Assembly. We have no doubt that under your able stewardship this session will successfully address the many and complex issues confronting the Assembly and the Organization. May I take this opportunity to pay tribute to your predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail, and to say how proud we Malaysians are of the manner in which he guided the work of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. Malaysia is honoured by the opportunity given him to serve this Assembly and is deeply grateful for the support he received from Member States, the Secretariat and other members of the international community in the discharge of his duties. I would also like to acknowledge the tireless efforts of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, who since assuming office less than nine months ago has swiftly begun to energize and revitalize this Organization through his proposals for change and reform. We wish him every success in these efforts, for which we extend our full cooperation and support. The general debate of this Assembly is the only truly universal forum where leaders representing diverse sovereign countries and their peoples are able to articulate very freely their views, without fear or favour. Given the monopoly of international information and communication by vested interests, the value of this Assembly as a forum for the free expression of differing views by leaders representing the sovereign Member States cannot be overstated. As an annual debate which serves the purpose of bringing to the attention of the international community the priority issues of concern to sovereign Member States, it cannot be replaced. Today, I am privileged to have the benefit of this forum to share with Members the priority issues of concern to Malaysia. Let me begin with a matter of immediate concern to us and to a number of other Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) countries, which experienced the severe effects of the turmoil in currency and stock markets in recent weeks. Stock prices plunged while our national currencies depreciated, exacting a heavy toll on economic growth and development. The sequence of events did not take place as a result of war, conflict, natural disaster or mismanagement. It was precipitated by currency speculators - indeed, manipulators - who, driven by sheer greed, took advantage of the vulnerabilities of developing economies, especially the fragility of their nascent financial markets. What happened in South-East Asia could, of course, occur in other parts of the world which are increasingly dependent on capital flows for economic growth. Such rampant speculation or manipulation of hedge funds in the currency and equity markets of developing countries, at a time when they are still feeling their way in a world of fierce global competition, would trigger off a defensive reflex on the part of the affected countries, thereby arousing anti-liberalization, which would be detrimental to free trade. In an interdependent world, the currency crisis in South-East Asia warrants the prompt action of the multilateral financial institutions, such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, and the developed countries, which should assist the affected economies of East Asia in overcoming the effects of this excessive manipulation and in preventing its recurrence. Their positive response in this regard is especially important in order to maintain the developed countries’ continued commitment to, and confidence in, globalization, on which so much of international free trade depends. Threats to the well-being of States take many forms and can come from within as well as from outside. These threats, including the notion of erosion of sovereignty, have been facilitated by the advent of technology. The Secretary-General alluded to this development in his report on the work of this Organization, where he recognized that the same technological means that foster globalization and the transnational expansion of civil society also provide the infrastructure for expanding global networks of “uncivil society” - organized crime, drug-traffickers, money-launderers and terrorists. We live in a time when it has become fashionable, in some quarters, to distinguish between the security of a State and individual security, especially in the context of developing regions of the world. The perception has been created that the concept of security of the State is somehow inimical to the rights of the individual in the developing world, and this has been highlighted in the context of human rights. The elevation of the importance of human rights in the international agenda, a most welcome development, has been exploited and politicized for narrow self-serving interests and specific political 10 agendas. If our interest is to heap scorn and to indulge in double standards, selectivity and mutual recrimination, the noble cause of promoting the universal value of human rights is bound to suffer. Blatant violations of human rights — whether in Bosnia and Herzegovina, occupied territories of the Arabs and Palestinians or in other parts of the world — must be condemned and prevented, and not have a blind eye turned to them, if the United Nations is to play an effective role in promoting and protecting these rights. As we commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1998, consideration needs to be given to a review of relevant human rights documents and their applications. We must rededicate ourselves to the need for a balanced approach to all aspects of human rights — civil, political, social, economic and cultural. Selective interpretation or application of human rights will not only demean their value but, more seriously, undermine the well-being of individuals in parts of the world that are still engulfed by age-old hatreds and animosities. We should reiterate our recognition of cultural peculiarities, which is an inherent and timeless characteristic of human society. We should assert that there is no intrinsic contradiction between the rights of the individual and those of the community. Individual rights do not exist in a vacuum. Indeed, individual and community rights are not mutually exclusive; they thrive on the basis of a mutually reinforcing and balanced relationship. As one reinforces the other, there should be no artificial separation between the two by stressing the importance of one at the expense of the other. Malaysia welcomes the appointment of Mrs. Mary Robinson, former President of Ireland, as the new High Commissioner for Human Rights, and hopes that, together with the United Nations Secretary-General, she will be able to improve the United Nations human rights machinery and role, including the depoliticization of human rights and the timely and full implementation of the right to development. The United Nations remains, as the Secretary-General has put it, “the only institution that has the breadth of mandate to address the root causes of instability and conflict and to pursue in a comprehensive and integrated manner the wide array of economic, social and environmental issues impinging on development.” (A/51/950, para. 128) We must therefore be wary of those seeking to exploit specific issues designed to marginalize the Organization. More than 50 years after its creation, the pre-eminence of the United Nations in multilateral issues can no longer be taken for granted, despite its universal membership and broad mandates dealing with all issues of peace, security, disarmament and development. The commitment of the United Nations to development remains its most significant role. While the Organization’s forays into peacekeeping make all the headlines, it is its work in development, in terms of resources generated and the changes made in peoples’ lives, that is most vital and meaningful to Member States. It has become clear that while the eradication of poverty and the enhancement of development are the responsibilities of individual States, the United Nations system has a key conceptual and promotional role to play. The ultimate objective — to secure the development of developing countries — remains the same. We need to constantly re-examine the means by which to attain this goal. The United Nations must strongly project the need for higher levels of growth, accelerated development, and equitable geographical distribution of growth. In this context, we need to ensure that our approach to development takes into account the economic, political and technological realities of our time, especially the increasing influence of the private sector. Regrettably, resources made available for development have declined substantially in recent years, adversely affecting the various United Nations programmes and agencies concerned. Culpability must rest with those who had promised to assist but failed to deliver. In the light of such a disappointing let-down, the United Nations should explore the possibilities for closer cooperation with other stakeholders, particularly the corporate sectors. With their vast resources, expertise, financial clout and extensive global networking, those in the private sector should be welcomed as partners to operationalize certain aspects of sustainable development. They could, for example, provide assistance on environmentally sound technologies where Governments have left a void. The United Nations should ensure that it involves the private sector from all over the world. However, it must also ensure that it will not be dominated by the interests of the 11 business community, by holding the corporate actors accountable. The United Nations must continue to be a democratic institution, accountable to all its Members. Unfortunately, this cornerstone of the Organization continues to be assailed by those still bent on the quest for geopolitical dominance. In an increasingly unipolar world it is imperative that the United Nations preserve its independence or autonomy and decide in the interests of all Member States, not just those of a particular Member State or group of States. The process of the democratization of the United Nations is particularly important in the context of the reform of the Organization, especially that of the Security Council, which is long overdue. Malaysia supports an early resolution of the issue. Ambassador Razali Ismail, in his capacity as President of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly and as Chairman of the high-level working group on the reform and restructuring of the Security Council, tried his best to move the process forward. Concerted efforts must continue to be made to ensure that, since the Council’s permanent members cannot be abolished, its continued existence must reflect current realities, in particular the significant role of the developing countries in international affairs. At the same time, as a matter of principle, there should be no discrimination or differentiation between the old and the new permanent members. If reform of the Council is to be truly comprehensive and consistent with the spirit and realities of our time, then we must seek to remove — or at least, as a first step, restrict — the use of the veto power. Democracy in the United Nations is a mockery if the voice of the majority is rendered meaningless by the narrow interests of a dominant few. Malaysia believes that genuine global peace and security and the survival of mankind can only be assured in a world free of weapons of mass destruction. Therefore, disarmament, particularly nuclear disarmament, remains a foremost priority of the global community, and we urge the Secretary-General to reaffirm his support — notwithstanding his preoccupation with certain aspects of proliferation issues, particularly small arms. We are deeply concerned over the trend in some quarters to ignore the need to stop vertical proliferation. We urge the international community to expedite efforts to achieve the total elimination of nuclear weapons, to be formalized in a nuclear weapons convention. We hope that the new and reconstituted Department of Disarmament and Arms Regulation will place as high a priority on disarmament as it does on proliferation of weapons and arms regulation. For its part, like a number of other regional groups, has positively contributed to the disarmament process by bringing into force the South- East Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone, which still awaits the support of the nuclear-weapon States. While we stress the importance of non-proliferation, real progress in disarmament will only be achieved by addressing the issue in all its aspects. While nations that aspire to become nuclear Powers should disavow their intentions, the declared nuclear Powers, which are also the world’s largest arms traders, should also embark on the road towards general and complete disarmament. In this regard, we laud the global initiative to ban landmines, and call on the producers of these mines to help defray demining and rehabilitation costs in the affected countries. International peace and security continues to be threatened by the deteriorating situation in the Middle East following the waning of the peace initiative in the Middle East. Mutual distrust has replaced the synergy for peace as the modus operandi between Israel and the Palestinian Authority. Malaysia supports the call for the immediate resumption of peace talks and affirms its support for the Palestinian people and their inalienable right to self-determination. We urge the international community to persuade or pressure Israel to honour its part of the Oslo accords by lifting the ban on Palestinian cities and towns, and to give up its intention to build settlements in what are occupied territories. We are further alarmed by Israel’s decision to build a dam in the occupied Golan Heights. We view this as a deliberate act of provocation and bad faith, and question its sincerity in seeking genuine and enduring peace with its Arab neighbours. In the meantime, the international community should continue to provide the necessary financial support to ameliorate the plight of the Palestinians — for example, through the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA), to which my Government has made its modest contribution over the years, in addition to our own bilateral assistance to Palestine. It is important that UNWRA be provided with adequate resources to fully implement its programmes and activities. We remain seriously concerned over the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Obstacles continue to impede 12 the full implementation of the Dayton peace accord. Further, mutual mistrust and animosity among the different ethnic groups cast doubts over the future of the country. It is our fear that the withdrawal of the international forces from that country could trigger a new wave of violence and bloodshed. This fear is real, particularly since indicted war criminals, who should have been removed from the scene long ago, are still at large and exercising power and influence. Malaysia believes that creating an environment of trust and understanding among the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina is a priority. The international community should make efforts to promote goodwill among the Bosnians and encourage them to live in peace and harmony. One such initiative could take the form of informal round- table conferences, participated in by Bosnians of all ethnic origins, representing the different sectors of society and professions, including academia, and participants from other countries, to discuss all issues of ethnic relations with the view to enhancing understanding and cooperation among them. It is my hope that from this effort will emerge a sizeable group of leaders from various professions, acting as catalysts for the promotion of goodwill and cooperation among the ethnic groups in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Malaysia is prepared to work with like-minded countries to help realize this idea. We have to ensure that peace and stability endure in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that we contribute in the efforts towards its early reconstruction. At the same time, we must all work to bring justice back to the Balkan region by ensuring that just retribution is meted out to those who participated in some of the worst atrocities of this century. As we approach the twenty-first century, our energies and preoccupation must centre on building and strengthening peace and prosperity. Peace and security are two sides of the same coin: peace nurtures prosperity, while prosperity reinforces peace. Peace at the national level is sustained through democracy, good governance and close collaboration between the different segments of society. Malaysia, a multiracial and multi-religious society, which less than a month ago observed its fortieth anniversary, has been blessed with peace and prosperity. While this may partly be due to fortuitous circumstances, a lot of it has to do with an effective leadership and a people determined to improve their lot. It is fortunate that we have been able to rule the country by the process of the ballot and not the bullet, with regular free and fair elections and with the different races accommodating and sharing power on the basis of democratic principles. By engendering social and racial harmony based on a political compact, we have been spared many of the traumas experienced by less fortunate countries and we were thus able to achieve our development goals in relative peace and tranquillity. I am happy to say that we have been able to share some of our experience in nation- building with a number of our friends in the developing world. In spite of the many criticisms levelled at the United Nations — some of them not entirely justified — this much maligned Organization of ours has remained steadfast in its mission to serve the international community, even as its resources have been dwindling in recent years. Clearly, in an ever-changing world that is growing more complex and increasingly unipolar, the United Nations has served as a pillar of international order. Serving as the collective conscience of humanity and the arbiter of its conflicts, the Organization, despite its deficiencies, has functioned as an indispensable norm- making and institution-creating instrument of international relations. In my view the process of United Nations bashing has gone on far too long. While the introspection that followed was inevitable and has had a sobering effect on the Organization, it is time for us to pick up the pieces and allow the Organization to get on with its mission. For this purpose, the Secretary-General has put forward a comprehensive package of reform proposals for which he must be given a lot of credit. Obviously, such a wide- ranging package by its very nature cannot please every one of the 185 Members of the Organization. The Secretary-General has attempted to put together proposals and strategies that are intended to secure the broadest support from Member States predicated on a slate of shared common goals. Malaysia is supportive of the general thrusts of the Secretary-General’s package of reform proposals. Many of the highlights of these proposals are indeed interesting and deserve our serious consideration. We support the Cabinet-style management approach that the Secretary- General is introducing, revolving around the Senior Management Group, as well as his proposal to create the post of Deputy Secretary-General. We hope that the Deputy Secretary-General will not only assist an already overburdened Secretary-General in the management of the Secretariat, but would also have substantive responsibility 13 in overseeing the core area of development which is dear to the hearts of developing countries. Malaysia also welcomes the measures being taken to increase and improve coordination between United Nations Headquarters and its field operations. We also support the rationalization of the work of the Organization involving the reconstitution or amalgamation of the various departments aimed at consolidating and integrating their work so as to enhance their effectiveness and efficiency. We trust that in carrying out the reorganization exercise, the Secretary-General will be guided by the need to ensure that the changes will benefit all of the Member States, particularly those in the developing world. My delegation will take an active part in the detailed discussion of the Secretary-General’s reform proposals in any format that will be agreed upon by Member States which will facilitate their implementation at an early date. In carrying out these reforms, however, we should not lose sight of the importance of the financial health of the Organization, which has been highlighted by the Secretary- General himself. The proposed revolving credit fund is a welcome measure insofar as it provides financial solvency in the short term. But it is unfair and unethical that the rest of the world is held to ransom by the few who disregard international treaties and agreements and Charter provisions for the sake of their narrow national interests. We join the Secretary-General in urging Member States to work towards the speedy resolution of the financial crisis of the United Nations by fulfilling their financial obligations towards the Organization.   ﻿It gives me great pleasure to begin my statement by congratulating you, Mr. President, and the Government and people of your friendly country on your election as President of the fifty-second session of the General Assembly. I am quite confident that you will conduct the proceedings of this session efficiently and competently, given your renowned skill and experience in both diplomatic and international affairs. I would also like to express our utmost appreciation and gratitude to your predecessor, Mr. Razali Ismail, for his successful and distinguished management of the affairs of the fifty-first session which has just ended. It is also my pleasure heartily to congratulate the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, on his election to the office of Secretary-General of the United Nations at the beginning of this year. I wish him success and wish our Organization progress and prosperity under his leadership. Since the start of the peace process in the Middle East, Jordan has carefully upheld the purposes and terms of reference of this process, which began in Madrid in 1991 with the participation of all the concerned parties. Since recovering its territory and water under the peace treaty signed with Israel in October 1994, Jordan has maintained its pivotal role in the process and continued its efforts with the other parties to achieve the desired goals of establishing a just, comprehensive and lasting peace which will be accepted, preserved and protected by future generations. We fully believe that the durability of peace is closely tied to the need for it to be just and comprehensive. We understand comprehensiveness in its broadest sense, namely, all parties to the conflict without exception must be involved and all aspects of the conflict must be dealt with, whether its inherent causes or those which have evolved and been aggravated over the years and during the various phases of the conflict. Jordan has always emphasized its adherence to Security Council resolutions, particularly resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978), as the basic terms of reference for the peace process, in addition to the principle of handing back occupied Arab territory in return for peace. Based on this and on relevant United Nations resolutions, legitimacy and justice, we call for the resumption of negotiations on the Syrian-Israeli track and the Lebanese-Israeli track. We have also made and continue to make our best efforts to achieve the implementation of the transitional phase agreements and go on to the final status negotiations on the Palestinian track. We do this out of our firm conviction that the peace process will not attain comprehensiveness nor justice unless the Israelis and Palestinians arrive at a just solution for the question of Palestine, including the right of self-determination for the Palestinian people and the establishment of their independent State on their national territory. Jerusalem, the city of peace, which is the seat of the Holy Places of the three heavenly religions, and to which the hearts of believers the world over turn, deserves our utmost attention, with a view to reaching a satisfactory solution that ensures to all freedom of access to the Holy Places, preserves the holy character of the city and keeps it as a symbol of peace among peoples across the world. We affirm that East Jerusalem is an occupied Palestinian Arab city to which Security Council resolution 242 (1967) applies, as it applies to all occupied Arab territories. If the security problem is a major obstacle to peace, confidence-building and peacemaking are the best means 6 to achieve individual and regional security as well as stability in the Middle East. There is no peace without security and no security without peace. Accordingly, we would like from this international rostrum to call upon Israel — the State with which we have concluded a peace treaty — to do everything possible to build and consolidate confidence with the peoples of the region in general and the Palestinian people in particular. A first step toward that would be to abandon, in its dealing with security matters, the language of force, the language of siege and restrictions on the livelihood of the Palestinian people. At the same time, Israel must abide by the Fourth Geneva Convention by abandoning the settlement policy and the policy of creating a new fait accompli on Palestinian territory, including its attempts to change the demographic structure and the religious, historical and cultural character of the occupied territories, including Jerusalem. We also call upon Israel to implement the agreements concluded with the Palestinian side in letter and spirit as soon as possible, for delay and siege will create a state of despair in which it becomes impossible to control extremism and prevent it from wreaking havoc on security and stability. Extremism undoubtedly finds in these policies a fertile ground for the achievement of its anti-peace objectives. On the other hand, in order to build confidence with the Governments and peoples of the region, Israel has to abandon the production and development of weapons of mass destruction, particularly nuclear weapons. All the Middle East States, except Israel, have become parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). The whole world recognizes that the current situation in the region is indeed a unique situation unparalleled in other regions of the world. A single State has a monopoly of nuclear capabilities, while the other States of the region are bound by treaties and international law. Because the presence of nuclear weapons is a major obstacle preventing the peace process from reaching its goals, the ideal solution for this problem would be to remove this obstacle by establishing in the Middle East a zone free from all weapons of mass destruction. In this context, permit me to announce the decision of the Government of Jordan to accede to the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction. This decision was motivated by Jordan’s belief that weapons, including all weapons of mass destruction, do not establish security nor restore stability to the Middle East region or to any region in the world unless there is full confidence among its Governments and peoples. The Iraqis no longer see any ray of hope of ending their continuous suffering caused by the embargo that has been imposed on them for the last seven years. Iraqis have suffered enough and tasted enough bitter pain. It is high time that our international Organization moved to alleviate their suffering and dress their wounds, so that they may recover their livelihood and contribute anew to the development and prosperity of the region. In issuing this serious and sincere call for the lifting of the embargo imposed on the people of Iraq, we would like to reaffirm that it is necessary to preserve Iraq’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. We also call upon the Iraqi Government fully to implement all Security Council resolutions and to do its best to reach a solution for the problem of Kuwaiti prisoners and missing persons, to pave the way for the reestablishment of normal and friendly relations among the States of the region on the basis of mutual respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all States. Just as the Iraqi people are suffering from the blockade, so are the Libyan people. Since the sanctions were imposed on Libya, the Libyan people have been suffering from a ban on flights. We therefore call for a peaceful settlement of the problem arising from the Lockerbie tragedy within a framework of international law and legitimacy. We call upon Iran to enter into serious negotiations with the sisterly United Arab Emirates in order to reach a peaceful solution, ensuring the return of the three occupied islands, Abu Musa and the Greater and the Lesser Tunb, to the United Arab Emirates, which would effectively contribute to the establishment of peace, security and stability in the Gulf region. Since war began in the former Yugoslavia, Jordan has joined its voice to those of all the States that called for an end to the suffering of the people of the nascent Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, suffering that shocked the conscience of the whole world and moved the international community, which had held high hopes following the conclusion of the Dayton Peace Agreement. We now reaffirm that peace, security and stability in Bosnia — and, indeed, throughout the Balkans — depend largely on the full and honest implementation of that Agreement. A strong international commitment is also 7 essential for making the peace process an irreversible reality. The international community must do what is incumbent upon it in this regard, including providing effective assistance for reconstruction in Bosnia and Herzegovina and ensuring the effective management of public enterprises as provided in the Dayton Agreement. This would have an important impact on the preservation of Bosnia’s unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity. The problem of Palestinian refugees, the resolution of which has been left to the final status negotiations, is one of the most intricate problems faced by the Middle East region. However, the international community, regrettably, does not accord this problem the attention that it deserves. The financial crisis which grips the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) has been escalating year after year without a solution being found. UNRWA has been forced this year to announce austerity measures entailing a large reduction in services offered to the Palestinian refugees, including the immediate cessation of the scholarships funded from the regular budget; the elimination of all medical compensation and referral to hospitals during the last two months of this year; the freezing of emergency cash assistance and shelter rehabilitation from the regular budget; a freeze on the creation of new posts, international as well as local; the suspension of recruitment of international staff; the suspension of appointments to local posts, with the exception of those considered essential for the continuation of operations; and a plan to consider collecting fees from students in UNRWA’s areas of operation. Although all those measures have been put on hold following pledges by certain donor countries during their meeting with UNRWA and host countries, held recently in Amman, to increase their voluntary contributions by an amount sufficient to cover this year’s deficit, which amounts to $20 million, the danger of cutting services remains as long as no final solution has been found, taking into consideration the need to meet the requirements of natural population growth among refugees and inflation rates. Since the beginning of the refugee tragedy more than five decades ago, Jordan has borne the heaviest burden of all the host countries. The number of refugees in Jordan is 1.5 million, 20 per cent of whom live in refugee camps serviced by UNRWA and the rest of whom are scattered throughout Jordanian cities and villages. Out of its sense of humanitarian responsibility, the Government of Jordan has provided all services needed by the refugees, including infrastructure, education, health and welfare services and financial support, in addition to public security and civil defence services. Thus, Jordan, despite its scarce resources and limited means, spends approximately $340 million annually on services provided to refugees, an amount almost equal to UNRWA’s total budget. That is not all. The Government of Jordan has also developed this year a strategic plan, a so-called social security package designed to develop infrastructure for refugee camps and disadvantaged areas, to provide sustainable development and to reduce poverty. The total share of refugee camps in this plan comes to nearly $240 million, which will be allocated to the rehabilitation of water systems, solid waste treatment, sewerage systems, water purification plants, road and electricity projects and the provision of essential public services. While Jordan affirms that improving the standards of living for the Palestinian refugees does not diminish their political right to return and compensation, as provided for in General Assembly resolution 194 (III) of 1948, it reaffirms that the support of UNRWA is a collective responsibility of the international community. It also stresses the legal, political and humanitarian dimensions of the refugee question and considers that any failure to discharge the humanitarian responsibility for this question would negatively reflect on political responsibility. My country therefore affirms from this rostrum the need to take serious and sincere action and to make every effort to continue the services provided by UNRWA to Palestinian refugees until a lasting, just and comprehensive solution to their problem is reached. We also call for the abandonment of any attempts to abolish UNRWA, suspend its operations, reduce the services it provides to refugees or turn its mandates and responsibilities over to any other agency, for that would have a negative impact on the political and legal dimensions of the refugee question. It would also have a negative impact on the peace process and stability in the region. We call for compliance with the letter and spirit of General Assembly resolution 194 (III) of 1948 on the question of refugees, as well as with Security Council resolution 237 (1967), which calls for facilitation of the return of displaced persons. We call upon donor countries to fulfil their commitments to UNRWA and increase their contributions to an extent commensurate with the natural increase in the numbers of refugees. We also call upon the international community in general, and potential donors in particular, to give due attention to this matter. 8 The refugee problem reminds us of international humanitarian law in general and the need for its full application in particular. This subject has always been one of interest to Jordan. Since 1981, Jordan has been submitting a draft resolution to the Third Committee entitled, “A new international humanitarian order”, which calls for respect for the full application of international humanitarian law. My Government has also amended Jordanian laws to give priority and immense importance to the application of this law. I would recall here the appeal by His Royal Highness the Crown Prince of Jordan to work hard with the international community to bring into existence a new international humanitarian order. The report of the Secretary-General entitled, “Renewing the United Nations: A Programme for Reform”, which he submitted last July, constitutes a good basis for the reform process and a studied plan for the future, embodying a serious and real desire for change for the better. The report reviews the main strategic functions of the Organization and provides for each of them specific proposals charting the way and making Member States real partners in achieving an Organization better prepared to deal with humanitarian and political crises; based on greater efficiency; qualified to play a more vital role in the areas specified by the Charter; and made imperative by the changing security, economic, social and political circumstances of this world. Jordan calls for opening membership of the United Nations to all peace-loving States, in accordance with Article 4 (1) of the Charter, in order to achieve the universality of the Charter. The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, while fully appreciating the good efforts of the Secretary-General in preparing his plan, stresses the fact that the purpose of reform is not confined to cutting costs or dealing with unwieldiness. It goes far beyond that to reactivate the role of the Organization to discharge its responsibilities and carry out its functions with a high degree of efficiency, transparency and credibility. We agree with the Secretary- General that reform is not an isolated event, but a continuing process that does not stop at the implementation of the proposals contained in the report. It extends to encompassing the general direction in which the Organization will evolve as a result of the implementation of the proposals. The coming century will witness deeper and quicker global changes. The United Nations must be prepared to deal with these changes in the five major areas corresponding to the main mandates of the United Nations: peace and security, economic and social affairs, development cooperation, humanitarian affairs and human rights. In the area of international peace and security, we find that the multiplicity and diversity of armed conflicts in the post-cold-war era have made the Security Council a hub of international efforts to establish peace and security throughout the world. This makes it very important to restructure and reform the Council. The Security Council, established after the Second World War, does not reflect the balance of power prevalent in today’s world. It has become necessary to review its structure and rules of procedure. The Working Group on the restructuring and reform of the Security Council has made tireless efforts over the past few years to achieve this purpose. There are many useful and feasible concepts that have appeared in the context of reform. What has been lacking so far is the collective political will to translate these concepts into reality. In this regard, Jordan feels that any new restructuring of the Security Council must take into account the representation of the developing countries throughout the globe. We feel that the Arab Group, in view of its major and effective role, is entitled to a permanent seat on the Security Council. There is no doubt that the United Nations peacekeeping operations will continue to be one of the most important activities of the Organization in enhancing international peace and security. Driven by its belief in this noble aim, Jordan has, on the direction of its Hashemite leadership, participated for many years in these activities to the extent that, at one point, its contribution ranked second among all the troop-contributing countries. I must, however, point to the financial difficulties faced by some troop-contributing States, including Jordan, as a result of the financial crisis gripping the Organization, because reimbursements have not been made in a timely manner. I appeal from this rostrum to all Member States to pay their assessed contributions to the Organization without condition, in full and on time. Moreover, Jordan has participated in the United Nations stand-by arrangements. It was the first country to sign a memorandum of understanding with the United Nations under this system. It also participated effectively in crystallizing the idea of establishing a rapidly deployable mission headquarters to contribute to 9 enhancing the Organization’s ability to respond rapidly to crises as they occur. As for disarmament and arms control, the progress witnessed by the world during the past few years is really encouraging. The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons has been extended indefinitely and is now approaching universality. Last year, the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty was concluded, in addition to other significant achievements in the reduction of the nuclear-weapon arsenals of the United States and the Russian Federation. All eyes are now set on the Conference on Disarmament in the hopes of seeing it crown its achievements with a treaty banning the production of fissionable materials used in the manufacture of nuclear weapons and another providing full security assurances to non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons. Since development in the economic and social fields is one of the primary objectives of the United Nations, serious attention must be directed towards reform of United Nations organs functioning in these two spheres, foremost among them the Economic and Social Council. This reform should enhance international cooperation in setting forth effective national policies aimed at advancing growth in all Member States with no exceptions. The most important characteristics of the world economy, as we stand on the threshold of the twenty-first century, are two: first is the global transition to market economy, and second is the rapid technical development of communication and information technology, making knowledge the most important factor of production. The new world economy is also characterized by intense competitiveness, speed, the intensive use of information and increasing globalization. We must, however, consider how we can find the means to avoid the negative effects of globalization, represented by the marginalization of some developing countries, because of their declining exports and an increase in their external indebtedness, and of social groups in these countries as a result of the inequitable distribution of income. Globalization is not concerned with the problems of distribution, but with being a prime mover of economic growth in general. In view of this situation, the industrialized countries are called upon to increase their official development assistance to the developing world, to find comprehensive solutions to the problem of external indebtedness, to integrate the developing countries into the world’s free- trade system and to improve these countries’ terms of trade. Jordan, as a developing country, has suffered economic problems since the end of the 1980s, which were aggravated by the Gulf crisis and the Gulf War early in this decade. By pursuing structural adjustment policies, however, with the assistance of the International Monetary Fund, Jordan was able to achieve very good results that exceeded expectations. The budget deficit was substantially reduced, as was the size of external debt. All macroeconomic indicators have improved. Substantial progress has been achieved in the area of privatization and the reform of internal financial regulations and the banking sector, which gave the private sector a chance to participate effectively. Jordan has gone ahead on the way to development. It has initialled a partnership agreement with Europe and is now taking the preparatory measures needed to join the World Trade Organization (WTO). To that end, we are doing our best to adjust our economy and prepare it for full integration in the global free-trade system. In association with our Arab brethren and other countries in the Middle East, we are making tremendous efforts to widen the area of cooperation, trade and investment in the region. We have succeeded in attracting substantial investments in the stock exchange and other industrial and tourist projects. The Government of Jordan is working hard to remove the remaining restrictions which limited the inflow of regional and global investments, including lifting all restrictions on foreign currencies. The world recognizes the historical responsibility that we assume towards future generations to preserve a sound global environment, in compliance with the principles adopted by the Earth Summit. In spite of its scarce resources, Jordan is committed to applying the Rio principles and is working hard to make its contribution as a partner with other countries of the world in sustainable development. Although we are committed, as a developing country, to doing what is required of us by virtue of this partnership, we, along with other developing countries, have noticed regression and procrastination by developed countries in discharging their obligations under this partnership. We have also felt that the nineteenth special session of the General Assembly was held to consecrate 10 this regression in the discharge of obligations, rather than to enhance them and to cooperate in carrying out those not yet implemented. In conclusion, if the establishment of peace, security and stability in this world is one of the noble purposes of our international Organization, we must provide the solid ground for that, which is to reduce poverty, control diseases, illiteracy and unemployment and work towards the creation of a clean environment and sustainable development for future generations.  ﻿Allow me to extend our thanks to the outgoing President, Ambassador Razali Ismail, and to congratulate him on the way in which he fulfilled his mandate. I would also like to congratulate Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko on his election and wish him complete success in his efforts to strengthen and increase the effectiveness of the United Nations in these historic times, which more than ever demand our application, perseverance, determination and good faith. More than half a century has elapsed since the United Nations was founded. When the United Nations was born, mankind wanted it to lead to the creation of a world of justice, law and peace. The United Nations was supposed to be able to defend human rights when they were violated and promote justice. By means of the United Nations, mankind aspired to put an end to an era of war and usher in an era of peace and tolerance, of respect for national sovereignty and people’s freedom and of independence of States; an era in which people would be free to fulfil their dreams and aspirations and to maintain their identity. Never in the course of human history have we needed the United Nations more than we need it today, in this era of communications and contacts, when frontiers are disappearing under the force of the technological revolution. This is an era of demographic explosion and deadly, destructive weapons; an era when the environment is no longer capable of meeting mankind’s demands. Today we are truly in need of a basic means of containing conflicts and resolving disputes. This is why we must increase the effectiveness of the United Nations mechanism and renew confidence in its justice, credibility and effectiveness, the freedom of its decision-making processes from hegemony, and the absence of imbalances in its measured ways and in the enforcement of its resolutions so that no one remains above international law. These steps are essential if we want to prevent the collapse of the United Nations, and if we want it to retain the moral authority necessary to resolve disputes and remain an alternative to hot and deadly confrontations. Therefore, Lebanon enthusiastically supports the reform of United Nations institutions, particularly the Security Council. We call for enhancing the numerical and geographical balance of the Council so as to reflect changed realities. The Council must also be reformed to dissipate the misgivings some have about the way it performs its role. Lebanon subscribes to the principle of rotation of the permanent seats in the Security Council. We reiterate our support for the position of the Arab Group, as expressed in the paper it presented on this subject. We welcome the Secretary-General’s proposals for the reform of the United Nations. We have given them our full attention and are carefully studying them. We believe it is necessary to enhance the role of the General Assembly and to make the issue of development a high priority for the Organization, while attaching great importance to the work of regional economic and social commissions. Under the rubric of reducing costs and the budget, many United Nations agencies, in particular the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA), have lost much of their ability to adequately provide social, health and education services to refugees in their host countries. This increases the burden on host countries, Lebanon among them. It is difficult for us to shoulder these responsibilities under these conditions. The responsibility of the international community in redressing the injustice inflicted on the Palestinian refugees must be made apparent. This bitter reality, which cannot be free of hidden intentions, aims at times at attempting to pressure these countries and force them to assimilate the refugee population they are hosting. 15 This would be a step towards liquidating the refugees’ case for return. It is also a means of pressuring the host countries into accepting unacceptable political terms. The international community, represented by the United Nations and the donor countries, is duty-bound to continue to render assistance to the Palestinian refugees awaiting a political resolution of their status in accordance with the right to return, as decided upon by the United Nations and, in particular, the principle of reuniting families. This is one of the pillars of the peace process, and thus it is essential that the international community persevere until a solution is attained. We had hoped that this session would be an occasion for us to express our gratitude for the restoration of peace in Lebanon and the Middle East. This would have been an attestation to the success of the Madrid peace process, which was launched six years ago to which should be added one year of preparation. This international peace initiative began auspiciously. We believed in both its letter and its spirit because the initiative was international, the sponsorship was effective and the contents were based upon an equitable, just and permanent peace. We were very hopeful, because we thought that peace would be realized on the basis of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978), on the basis of the principle of land for peace and on the basis of finding a consensual solution to the question of Jerusalem. The initiative was also supposed to put an end to Israel’s building and expansion of settlements in the occupied territories and lead to the recognition of the political rights of the Palestinian people. It was supposed to be followed by a discussion of regional arrangements to settle security, social and economic questions, in particular the question of the Palestinian refugees, thereby paving the way for the economic development of the region. We entered into the peace process convinced that the basic elements had been accepted at Madrid and that they had become commitments of the participating States. We thought that all that remained for the delegations was to begin negotiations on implementation. However, the advent of the present Israeli Government and its head totally dashed our hopes, given the practices of this new Government. The principle of land for peace was thrown out, to be replaced by a new formula. The Israeli Government reneged on the need for implementation of international decisions, and thus demanded their reinterpretation. That Government did not want to find a solution to the question of Jerusalem, so it went ahead and annexed it. The Israeli Government reneged on its commitments with regard to the occupied Syrian Golan, so it stressed its annexation. The Israeli Government demolished the principle of halting settlement activities and vastly expanded their efforts at settlement. The negotiated commitments of the previous Government were abandoned, as if there were no continuity from one Government to the next. Instead of making progress towards peace — the only worthwhile objective — the Government devoted itself to destroying what had been done, even if the steps previously taken were limited. Instead of being able to work towards a genuine peace, we have had to endure propaganda manoeuvres aimed at numbing and misleading public opinion, along with meetings that were designed just to give the impression that a dialogue was continuing. Instead of trying to find a solution to the basic conflict, the emphasis shifted to the normalization of relations through economic conferences — as a precondition, even before solving the legal and political problem — instead of having normalization occur naturally as a crowning of the basic solution. Faced with heightened internal crisis, the Israeli Government resorted to stirring up tension along its borders and in areas under occupation, to divert attention away from the peace it had scuttled. Thus, the principle of provocation and confrontation was re-established in order to create unity internally. Israel continued to carry out its acts of aggression against southern Lebanon and the western Bekaa, once with the goal of mobilizing Israeli public opinion against peace, and another time for the purpose of emptying international initiatives of their political content. The attacks continued, through artillery shelling, air raids, operations inside our territories — against villages and cities — against children, women, the elderly and homes. Destruction and demolition continued, as did the detention of Lebanese citizens in Israeli military camps — all of this without the United Nations international institutions being allowed to visit them. They were not permitted the enjoyment of elementary human rights: the right to counsel and the right to a fair trial. Some of them were returned to us as corpses, while others were tortured or maimed — and this in the era of respect for the rights of environment, of plants, and of animals. 16 Nonetheless, the more the occupation endured, the more Israel became increasingly bogged down in the quagmire of the south which became an inferno to it. The occupier has become a prisoner, and the aggressor a hostage in the face of a valiant people’s steadfastness and the resistance of its sons and daughters. Thus Israel sustained huge losses which is prompting it to rethink the viability and usefulness of its continued occupation of southern Lebanon. Against this reality, we heard, through misleading media reports, of an Israeli readiness to withdraw. We have to bring the truth forth. Lebanon’s firm stance has always been for a complete Israeli withdrawal to internationally recognized borders so as to enable the Lebanese State to exercise its sovereignty over its territories through its own forces. But Israel does not wish to withdraw; it is still camouflaging its unwillingness to withdraw completely by relocating or redeploying its forces. It continues to cast a smoke screen by asking to maintain inspection and control posts, by imposing conditions that limit the State’s authority and by giving the upper hand to the militias that it created. Furthermore, Israel is attempting to impose control over the Lebanese Army, which could be deployed, as well as other conditions that challenge any presumed Lebanese sovereignty when withdrawal takes place. I should like to pay tribute to our fallen heroes, members of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) — most recently four Italian soldiers and an Irish sergeant. Their blood was spilled in defence of southern Lebanon, mixing with that of Lebanese citizens. I should also like to pay tribute to the Force itself, whose commanders and troops are discharging a difficult task under the most difficult and most trying circumstances. No sooner had the people of the region begun to adapt to the anticipated climate of peace than they were thrust back into an era of confrontation, violence and inevitable defiance and resistance. Though development plans for the Middle East region were being formulated, and the world manifested interest in its peaceful future, caution and pessimism began once again to prevail, and hopes were dashed. No sooner had the Government of Israel drawn strength from the veto power used against Security Council resolutions on its settlement policies, it has continued to challenge Council resolutions, thereby undermining whatever is left of the peace process. The international community, which stands to be affected by the situation in the region, either directly or indirectly, must hold the defiant accountable. The international community has not only the right but also the duty to take action through the Organization of the United Nations. On many occasions, the United Nations has delegated this question to others, hoping that a solution could be found. It has consistently refrained from enforcing its resolutions, in contrast to its recent behaviour vis-à-vis many other States. The time has come for the United Nations to reclaim its role. The time has come to return to the basics of peace as agreed in Madrid, to the principle of land for peace, to the need to implement Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978), and to resume negotiations on all tracks from the point where they stopped. The time has come for Israel immediately to cease all settlement activities; to resolve the status of the city of Jerusalem; to withdraw from the Palestinian territory and recognize the political rights of the Palestinian people; to withdraw from the Syrian Golan to the line of 4 June 1967; to fully withdraw from southern Lebanon and its western Bekaa to the internationally recognized boundaries in order to enable the Lebanese State to exercise its authority, in accordance with Security Council resolution 425 (1978). Opting for a peace that ignores these fundamentals is a choice that is doomed to failure, a choice that could ignite the entire region. An isolationist policy that separates the various tracks would run counter to the principle of a comprehensive peace and will never achieve it. This is because the conflict is fundamentally a comprehensive one. It has never been a conflict between one single Arab State and Israel, but has always been between the Arabs and Israel. As long as a single track is excluded from the solution, peace will remain impossible. The tracks are all intertwined, which shows how indivisible and interconnected the cause is. Nobody should think that one track can survive, even for one hour, while other tracks remain excluded. Because Lebanon is at the heart of the conflict, it has suffered a great deal. Today, however, it is confounding all forecasts and expectations that presaged its demise by proving to the world once again, as it has done throughout its long and time-honoured history, that it is too strong to wither away, and that a right that is claimed by its people will never disappear. 17 When southern Lebanon and western Bekaa are liberated, when Lebanese sovereignty extends to all its territory, when the United Nations credibility is confirmed by the authority of its resolutions, when Israeli jails are emptied of their innocent detainees and resistance fighters, when an end is put to bloodshed which soaks our land, then and only then will the wound be healed. The tears will then stop and confidence will be restored to all in a genuine, just, permanent and comprehensive peace, a peace that can restore to the land of civilizations, religions and cultures the place it deserves now and in future, as it has always been throughout its long history. The choice of peace will not always be available to us. The peace that the Assembly supported is in the throes of death today. If restoring peace seems difficult, its demise would close the door to any attempt to rekindle the process in the foreseeable future, thus putting world peace in jeopardy and sparking an uncontrollable conflagration, which will be difficult to contain. May God guide the steps of those who are working for a peace that is just and not unfair, equitable and not biased, consensual and not imposed, a peace that honours the memory of those martyred, that does justice to those who struggle, and that would put an end to darkness in the land of the prophets and the messengers of God.  ﻿May I first say, Sir, how pleased my country is at your election as President of the fifty-second session of the United Nations General Assembly. I should also like to say to the Secretary-General that France welcomes the action he has already taken and assure him that he has our support and confidence. I shall begin my statement by expressing a conviction on behalf of my country: the world needs the United Nations more than ever. No, the United Nations did not lose its raison d'être with the end of the cold war, the end of the arms race between the two blocs and the head-on clash of differing ideologies. On the contrary, the need for a universal regulating body has never been so apparent. The reasons are known to all. Without regret, we left the era of bipolar confrontation to enter, in 1991, a new, global, evolving world in which 185 States cooperate, make alliances with one another or compete in stable or, conversely, unstable combinations. In this world, States are no longer the sole players. The giant conglomerates, the financial markets, the media, opinion groups and non-governmental organizations all play an increasing role. Because of this, there is an overriding need for clear, fair and predictable ground rules to establish a framework for settling conflicts or mere differences. For, nowadays, no serious problem can be resolved by one country, even the most powerful, entirely on its own. Unless we take care, unless we manage to build a world in which the rule of law prevails among all States, a world in equilibrium between its major centres of power, other scenarios will ensue: the absence of a counterweight will encourage the predominance of a single Power, and, inevitably, that Power will be tempted to engage in unilateralism; for want of organized regional entities, globalization will exacerbate the economic — and sometimes political — struggle of each against all; States will find themselves further weakened, and some will implode under the effects of aggressive nationalism, which is often contagious. Fierce competition will render virtually impossible environmental conservation, however urgent, however vital in the true meaning of the word, as well as the fight against drugs and crime; greater respect for human rights will be compromised. Our common task must be to forestall such dangers and, at the same time, to consolidate, together, the achievements of recent years. For this, regional groupings are one of the best possible foundations. Europe, which has been the crucible of so many wars, has been showing the way for half a century. The growth rates achieved by many countries in Asia, in Latin America and now in Africa, announce the emergence of new centres of power and prosperity. Political and economic entities are being organized and institutionalized: South-East Asia meets in the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN); in Latin America, the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR) is developing, as are the Southern African Development Community (SADC) in southern Africa and the Economic Community of West African States 19 (ECOWAS) in the west of that continent. To some extent, one might also include cultural and political entities, such as the Commonwealth and la Francophonie. This is a sensible way to adapt to globalization. However, at the global level we need a coherent, effective United Nations with the resources necessary to carry out its missions. It is the task of this body to facilitate the smooth organization of international relations and to determine universally recognized rules of law. To be sure, other organizations exist in various sectors, and these have their own, very important areas of authority. But none of them can take the place of the United Nations in giving the world of tomorrow a set of comprehensive rules. True to its tradition, France will support all the Organization's efforts to that end. I come now to the main object of the session which is beginning. To carry out the major role we expect of it, the United Nations must retain or reacquire the means to take decisions and to act. For this, we must resolve two matters: United Nations reform and the financing of the Organization. The ability of the United Nations to act in the years ahead will depend on the solutions we find together. France approved of the move by the new Secretary- General at the outset of his mandate to continue the study initiated by his predecessor, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. The main lines Mr. Kofi Annan has proposed for the work and the impetus he has given to the process of revamping the Organization have received France’s full support, a support shared by France’s partners in the European Union. The remarks made from this rostrum by its current President, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Luxembourg, illustrate this. I should like to comment more specifically on three points: the Security Council, financial reform and restructuring. The current composition of the Security Council no longer accurately reflects the political geography of today’s world. Clearly, it has to be reformed — that is to say, enlarged — to become more representative. In this connection, we must take into account the Security Council’s indispensable role in peacekeeping and thus elect countries able to contribute to this task, whether they are from the North or the South. Accordingly, my country is in favour of the accession of Germany, Japan and three countries from the South to permanent seats and the establishment of new non-permanent seats. For a Security Council composed solely of the principal countries of the North would not be representative. Nor should we forget that, once it is enlarged, and hence more representative, the Council will still have to be effective. That is essential. The proposals that have been submitted to us should make it possible to move forward. However, we are all aware that no consensus has yet been reached and that debates on this matter will be difficult. National interests and the concerns of regional groups must be given due consideration. In any event, I welcome President Razali’s perseverance throughout the fifty-first session of the United Nations General Assembly, which made it possible to draft a solid working basis from which we must now proceed to work to find a solution. Furthermore, financial reform of the United Nations is a particularly complex issue. It is shocking that the United Nations should be in a precarious state and therefore in a situation of financial and budgetary dependence with respect to its debtors. I believe that we will be able to move towards a solution on the basis of three principles: what is owed to the United Nations must be paid in full, on time and without conditions. Finally, the payment of contributions should not be a way of exerting pressure on the Secretary-General and the other Member States. With these rudimentary principles as a basis, France is open to discussion on all aspects of the problem. We will have to decide on the scale for apportioning assessments among all States. There is no perfect scale, but some are not as bad as others. The concept of each State’s ability to pay, which has enjoyed consensus since the outset, still seems simple, logical and fair today. On that basis, a solution can be found that takes account of the needs and interests of each State. France will do its utmost to facilitate the settlement of the financial crisis. We can be both imaginative and conciliatory — like the European Union’s plan. But our efforts will succeed only if there is respect for the rules I have just recalled, which reflect our Organization's impartiality and credibility. If the United Nations were forced to comply with the unilateral demands of one among us, in regard both to its financing and its functioning, then how could it convince anyone in the future that it is impartial and faithful to the principle of the equality of all under the Charter, and generate respect for its decisions? I come now to restructuring. The Secretary-General has undertaken to restructure and regroup the Organization’s institutions. France appreciates the logic of 20 this approach. It therefore welcomes the establishment in Vienna of a centre to deal specifically with combating new transnational dangers such as organized crime, drug trafficking and terrorism, problems that we must fight with ever-increased vigour. It is also very much in favour of integrating the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Centre for Human Rights into a single entity in Geneva where the main humanitarian aid services are already established. It also hopes that the main issues involving disarmament can continue to be addressed in Geneva. From this rostrum, I applaud the appointment of Mrs. Mary Robinson to the post of High Commissioner for Human Rights. Her very strong personality is commensurate with the challenges her task entails. The commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, starting on 10 December this year, will provide an opportunity to reaffirm, in the face of persistent violations and ever-recurring acts of barbarism, the universality of these rights. But we will also have to ask ourselves, in addition to making the usual declarations that are still necessary, what political and economic actions are needed to make real headway, in specific situations, towards respect for human rights, and how the emergence of democracies can be encouraged from outside. The United Nations, while adapting, must remain the preferred instrument for taking action in the interests of peace. At this time, the United Nations is really the only organization that can try to bring order to an international society which is becoming fragmented and globalized at the same time. The United Nations is faced with both a resurgence of every kind of micro-nationalism and the strengthening of regional entities. Most conflicts are now not between States but within them. Given these new challenges, the United Nations has already demonstrated how adaptable and flexible it is. But we must continue. To ensure the lasting settlement of conflicts, consciences have to be assuaged and justice needs to be done to put an end to the endless cycle of revenge. The perpetrators of the most serious crimes must be tried impartially, with respect for the rights of the defence, and after an exemplary investigation which reveals the facts in full. This is why France supports the action of the international criminal tribunals for the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda, and hopes that the forthcoming conference on an international criminal court will be a success. Since the beginning of the decade, the Organization’s actions to promote peace and international stability have changed radically. The time has passed when large-scale peacekeeping operations were mounted solely under the blue flag of the United Nations, in Cambodia and the former Yugoslavia for example, in order to take on massive challenges alone. Today, the United Nations intervenes more and more frequently in conjunction with other organizations or by authorizing the action of regional actors. In Europe, the United Nations is pooling its efforts with those of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in sensitive theatres of operation, and even with those of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. In Africa, for the first time, the Secretaries-General of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity (OAU) have in the past year appointed a joint special representative in the person of Ambassador Sahnoun, in the Great Lakes region. It is good that these two organizations are working together. This development must be encouraged. We must also help African States and organizations to strengthen their own peacekeeping capabilities. To this end, countries outside the African continent must pool their efforts and not multiply the number of rival and sometimes redundant initiatives. For instance, the Government of France, the United Kingdom and the United States recently agreed to act together with all those who wish to do so to strengthen the peacekeeping capabilities of African countries, under the auspices of the United Nations, of course, and in cooperation with the OAU. But, in France's view, encouraging Africa to become more involved in resolving crises certainly does not mean that the international community should relinquish its other responsibilities with regard to the African continent. It is therefore essential that the United Nations be ready, once the declared conditions are met, to act in Congo- Brazzaville. By the same token, the many recent tragedies in the Great Lakes region make sustained international involvement indispensable. This United Nations commitment to promote peace and development must also serve to further human rights. That is why it is important for the humanitarian investigative task force in the Democratic Republic of the Congo to be able to carry out its mission. I might add that by spending too much time talking about crises in Africa, one might forget the essential point, namely that the African continent is taking off in quite an unprecedented way. My country believes in this. We are all still mobilized by the situation in the Middle East. The peace process, set in train on the initiative of clear-sighted and courageous men on both sides, raised tremendous hopes. We can clearly see the increasingly tragic consequences to which the current 21 stalemate would lead, were it to last. The peoples of this region are once again stuck in an impasse, in a situation of humiliation, resentment, and the fear of terrorism. New efforts are therefore necessary so that these two peoples, Israeli and Palestinian, which are matched in terms of insecurity and fear of the future, can together find justice and security. France gave its full support to the action by the American Secretary of State, who recently went to the Middle East. Indeed, the United States has a special responsibility and special means to attempt to reinvigorate the peace process and effectively combat the deadly acts of extremism. France and Europe are ready to take part in any constructive move to this end. What can the United Nations do? It cannot take the place of the parties concerned, which have the primary responsibility. It is up to the Organization to state, or restate, the law and to recall the principles which must be the basis for any peace if we want it to last. I refer here to the resolutions adopted by the Security Council on the conflict in the Middle East, not forgetting resolution 425 (1978), which deals with the integrity of Lebanon in particular. Many other crisis situations where the wounds have not healed could be mentioned from this rostrum — so diverse is the work of the United Nations. In particular, I am thinking of the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where security has been restored but where the construction of a State with viable democratic institutions remains uncertain; and of Albania, where the new stability, thanks to resolute European action authorized by the United Nations, is giving rise to new hopes. I am also thinking of the tenacious efforts of the United Nations to contain or defuse the crises in Haiti, Cyprus, Georgia, Afghanistan, Tajikistan and elsewhere. Finally, let us not forget, now or ever, much-needed development assistance. Of course, the insertion of emerging economies, including the former underdeveloped economies, into the global economy is an excellent thing; indeed, past efforts in this regard have proved to be well founded. But this must not be a selfish excuse for the rich countries to give up their effort to provide development assistance, which is equally necessary. In any event, this is very much an imperative for the leaders of the member States of the Francophone community. The summit of these States in Hanoi in November will attest to their interest in more balanced development and also to their commitment to respecting the multiplicity of cultures and languages. I will say no more, however — other than to draw one single conclusion. While the world has changed so much over the past 50 years, and even more over the past six years, its inhabitants still voice the same needs. The rule of law must be continually consolidated and the democratic ideal put into practice, faced as we are with the temptations of oppression and the use of force, for which new pretexts are constantly being invoked. How can we be sure that the factors that make for war and chaos are banned for ever from all continents, including Europe? At this moment of our Organization's reform, let us not forget the lessons of history. Only international dialogue, the common management of crises, beginning with their prevention, and the wise conservation of the earth’s resources make it possible for the voice of reason and peace to prevail and for confidence in progress to be rebuilt. The United Nations is the right and the only legitimate forum for such international discussions, and the only one where they are universal. Our Organization is an irreplaceable framework and a vital necessity for us all. In the past, it has often been able to deter, address, resolve and prevent. Let us reform it so as to make it even more useful.  ﻿Mr. President, it is a particular pleasure for me to see you presiding over the General Assembly. As Ambassador to the former Soviet Union for five years, I had a long association with Ukraine, and I retain the fondest memories of my several visits to your beautiful country. You preside over an Assembly that will deliberate on crucial issues before the world community, on which your experience and guidance will be invaluable. I would also like to congratulate your predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail, on the engagement with which he acted during his presidency to carry our work forward. I am delighted also to see the Secretary-General here. We are celebrating in India the fiftieth anniversary of our emergence as a free nation. The constitutional moorings and the democratic forms which the new nation- State has accepted and adopted rest on the vast foundation of civilizational experience and ethos. This explains the stability, coherence and creative unity of the vast Indian society, which is a world in itself. The experience has wrought in us the deep conviction that, while there are universally shared values and striving, there can be no rigid prescriptions. We see the United Nations in this image, as a crucible in which we meld together our individual contributions to a world civilization, yet 6 recognizing the variety of historical and cultural experiences we bring to it. The cold war cast an early shadow on the Organization, creating a situation of ideological polarization. The Non-Aligned Movement rejected this imposition of rigidity, representing an independent and responsible alternative to the world view. This remains true, and the Non-Aligned Movement retains its validity and relevance, even after the disappearance of bloc rivalries. Non-alignment was not a by-product of the cold war. Then, it expressed the overwhelming need of previously colonized and disempowered nations to a voice, a perspective and an agenda in a politically and economically unequal and inequitable world. Today, it remains a voice of reason and constructive engagement for the times ahead, which demand common purpose and contribution from all sides towards a convergence of intent on vital, even fateful, global concerns. Since the creation of the Charter of the United Nations, the world should have changed far more than it has in the half century that has elapsed. Decolonization is almost complete, but the scars of colonization are still with us. The present bears a heavy burden of the past. South Africa is free, but racism rears its ugly head amidst us, often laced with xenophobia. Development and growth — and even human dignity — remain for much of the world a distant dream. We must insistently ask ourselves what we can decisively do at the United Nations to make the dreams of the hundreds of millions come true, how we can make the United Nations a more vibrant organization for the world community as a whole, at a time when we need it more than we ever have, a United Nations that is better equipped to fully respond to the challenges of the next century. As an organization, the United Nations must also evolve and adapt itself to a rapidly changing environment, the better to serve the core needs of the world community. As a country which sets very great store on the capacity of the United Nations to contribute to international peace and security, and to development — the two crucial priorities before the world community — India, like others, has a vital interest in a United Nations that continually makes itself more responsive to the needs of its Member States and prepares itself to serve them better. This, we believe, is the objective of reform. We are hence very pleased that the Secretary-General, immediately after taking office, made reform one of his priorities and we congratulate him on this commitment. Within the first seven months of his tenure, he has produced a series of proposals of impressive breadth and scope. These are before us, and many have described this session as a reform General Assembly. In this connection, I extend my good wishes to you, Mr. Secretary-General. We judge the agenda for reform by the measures I have described. We are supportive of all proposals that, in our view, will carry forward, or improve, the Secretariat’s ability to respond to the mandates of the international community. We will express our thoughts constructively with the aim of strengthening the process and direction of reform to the collective advantage of the global community and the Organization that represents it. We do not see reform simply as an exercise to trim the budget of the United Nations. Instead, reforms should contribute towards strengthening the United Nations and its capacity to respond effectively to the priorities identified by the overwhelming majority of its membership. The crisis that confronts the United Nations manifests itself in many ways. A financial crisis has resulted from the inability of some to fulfil their Charter commitments, and from the laying down of pre-conditions to meet them. The United Nations does not have the means to execute programmes that respond to the felt needs and priorities of its membership, precisely at a time when such programmes are sorely necessary. As a result, the United Nations is in danger of being marginalized as the global forum where decisions can be taken that truly respond to the challenges of globalization. The solution lies not in piecemeal reform but in building trust between nations, and in an acceptance that in international relations democratic principles should be the norm, just as they are being increasingly accepted in national governance. In our view, international peace and security and development are inextricably linked. The one is impossible to achieve without the other. Over the last six or seven years, there has been a growing emphasis on the political aspects of the tasks of development, such as democracy and human rights. Unless the underlying causes of underdevelopment, poverty and social alienation are effectively addressed and removed, this emphasis will remain unrealized. Therefore, the single most important target that the United Nations should set itself is the promotion of sustained economic growth in the developing countries that will lead to the eradication of poverty, and erase the tensions and pressures that have led to the collapse of governance and social order in several States, and to conflicts between others. 7 International peace and stability will be enhanced only when all countries enjoy a minimum standard of economic self-sufficiency and well-being. Therefore, we believe that the thrust of any reform proposals in the United Nations should make the promotion of sustained economic development the principal cross-sectoral issue for the Secretariat’s programmes. We believe that there are enough intergovernmental mandates to permit the Secretariat to tailor programmes towards this end. The universality of human rights, to which we all committed ourselves almost five years ago at Vienna, expresses itself at one level in the international norms for the promotion and protection of human rights and our collective efforts to foster respect for these standards. On a higher plane, this universality stems from the search in different civilizations for ways of protecting the human dignity of every individual. Next year, as we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we will reflect on whether the ideals enshrined in the Declaration have become a reality for people in all parts of the world. As we do so, we must build confidence in a process that encourages introspection and self-criticism, dialogue and consultation, rather than confrontation and judgement. The Declaration calls for the advent of a world order in which human beings shall enjoy freedom of speech and belief and freedom from fear and want as the highest aspirations of the common people. It recognizes the importance of economic, social and cultural rights as well as their interdependence with civil and political rights. The full realization of all these rights is what will give true meaning to the quest for human dignity embodied in the Universal Declaration. India’s approach to the observance and promotion of human rights is inspired by the holistic vision of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Indian Constitution. A strong constitutional framework, mutually reinforcing safeguards, both within and outside this framework; a policy of transparency and responsiveness to civil society; and cooperation with the human rights system of the United Nations — in particular with the treaty bodies — are the main elements of this approach in the areas of civil and political rights. Equally important, if not more so, are the assault on poverty and underdevelopment; the promotion of awareness of rights; and a policy of affirmative action for the uplifting of socially and economically vulnerable sectors of society. This is a complex task, especially in a country of India’s diversity. Many times, when the State has faltered civil society has stepped in. In India, as elsewhere, individuals have wrought miracles by working outside the established systems and going beyond traditional ways of thinking. In recent times, the most moving example has been that of a frail, sari-clad woman: Mother Teresa. Her fathomless compassion and soothing touch will be missed by millions in India. I would like to pay tribute to this apostle of mercy who rendered service and brought hope to millions of poor and suffering people, not only in India but all over the world. While development must be our supreme objective, we also need peace, stability and security in order to achieve it. The dangers that threaten us have become increasingly more frightening during the last 50 years than any that have cast their shadow over mankind in its entire history. The development of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons has made it possible to destroy whole populations. As the international community, we have decided to outlaw the production, possession and use of chemical and biological weapons. However, with regard to the weapons of mass destruction capable of the total annihilation of human civilization, the global community has lived for too long on a diet of empty promises. The pretexts cited in favour of clinging to nuclear arsenals, while always questionable, have now vanished. Mere non-proliferation treaties promoted as disarmament measures only serve to entrench a nuclear monopoly. No credible steps towards striving to realize a nuclear-weapon-free world are contemplated, much less taken, by those who should be showing the way. No justifications can be proffered, as they were during the cold war. The patience of the world community — as expressed by the International Court of Justice, by the enlightened voices of those who formerly believed in deterrence, by political and general opinion and by weighty voluntary initiatives — is starting to wear thin. Nuclear-weapon Powers owe it to the world to answer the question why they need nuclear weapons. Global opinion wants a nuclear weapons convention — as has already been outlined for the class of biological and chemical weapons — and will not rest until it is achieved. We appeal to nuclear-weapon States to align their policies with what the world wants. We see the United Nations as the forum in which the international community must continue to demand universal nuclear disarmament, and we therefore expect that the Secretariat's programmes will support this intergovernmental objective. 8 Under the Charter, the Security Council was constituted as a body on which the general membership conferred primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security, acting on its behalf. In recent years, the Security Council has been able to play a more active role in discharging its responsibilities. However, there is often a perception that the Council’s actions have not always reflected the sentiments of the general membership. Therefore, it is imperative — and the time has come — for the Security Council to take on as permanent members developing countries which are equipped to make important contributions through their world views and historical experiences and the values of their civilizations. In this way the decisions of the Council will truly reflect the wider membership of the United Nations. Otherwise, the Council’s actions will be seen as progressively less representative precisely at a time when it is being called upon to act far more frequently than before on behalf of the world community. India has let it be known in the General Assembly since 1994 that it is prepared to accept the responsibilities of permanent membership. We are the largest democracy in the world, with a civilization replete with ancient values and achievements, as well as a world view based on a universalist inspiration, participatory governance, respect for diversity and pluralism, and a readiness for constructive engagement in the world’s affairs. These strengths, we believe, would be an asset to an expanded Security Council. India’s standing as one of the leading economies of the world will be progressively strengthened, and we are prepared to bear fully the responsibilities of permanent membership. India’s long-standing participation in United Nations peacekeeping operations testifies not only to the dedication and professionalism of Indian soldiers, but also to the political will of the Government to actively contribute to these operations. The core of our foreign policy is our keenness to pursue close ties and build confidence and cooperation with our neighbours, while recognizing fully that we are the largest country in the region, in terms not only of size and population but also of economic capabilities. We extend our hand of friendship not in a spirit of mere reciprocity but in good faith. Where we do expect reciprocity, unrelated to size and capacity, is in mutual respect for each other’s territorial integrity and sovereignty. We seek to advance cohesion, synergy and mutual goodwill in our neighbourhood so that together we can fully participate in and derive benefits from the dynamic changes the world is currently witnessing. Our approach has contributed to the setting in motion of a trend towards cooperation in our region. As a large and diverse economy, we are developing new partnerships that go beyond the region and revitalize the old cultural and commercial links. Politically, this is expressed in the active interest that we have taken in supporting the Middle East peace process — our ties with the Arab world reaching deep into history — and our strong fraternal ties with developing countries in general and with Africa in particular. In our larger neighbourhood, with which we have a shared history, we have enhanced our engagement with the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) as a full-dialogue partner and as a participant in the ASEAN Regional Forum. While maintaining our traditional relationships with the United States, Russia, the European Union and Japan, we have also been strengthening global trends in regional cooperation by actively promoting cooperation among countries of the Indian Ocean rim and trying to recover the cultural and commercial connectivities that have existed since time immemorial and which were snapped in the colonial era. Global society is seeking to find an equilibrium between the opposing pulls generated by the forces of globalization, nationalism and sub-nationalism. Indeed, it is difficult to see just how they can be balanced, yet they must be or else the potential for international conflagration will be immense. Hence, the absolute need for extreme caution to prevent established nation States from being destabilized either through too hasty a push towards globalization or through the pull of sub-national demands. We see this as a challenge which we will have to face collectively as well as individually. A global menace that threatens international peace, and to which open democracies are particularly vulnerable, is terrorism. It takes innocent lives indiscriminately, brings fear into the lives of others and shatters the peaceful existence and the normal growth of entire communities. Terrorism should be anathema to the international community because it is the antithesis of every ideal that the United Nations Charter enshrines. Its main vehicle is violence; its aim is destruction rather than development; its doctrines are founded on intolerance; and, in the means it uses and the effect it has, it destroys human rights utterly. 9 Incitement to terrorism and complicity and participation in terrorism across borders undermine the international system. And even though very few societies are free from its clutches, we still have not developed a global strategy to defeat this evil. The resolve is absent. It is important that we find it, not least because terrorism has a global web, spanning all countries and continents and quickly building links with the other global menace: drugs. We in India see in our region just how deadly a poison this mix of terrorism and drugs is. The United Nations should take the lead in determined global action to root out these scourges. The protection and preservation of the environment is an area to which all of us attach the highest importance. The commitment to global partnership for preventing further degradation of the environment, made at the Rio Summit in 1992, was reiterated and the need for effective implementation of Agenda 21 reaffirmed during the special session of the General Assembly in June this year. All the elements of Agenda 21 have to be implemented in full and we need to accelerate the process of such implementation. Any partial or non-comprehensive implementation will be detrimental not only to international cooperation in this area, but also to the threatened stability of the Earth’s fragile environment. In this connection, it is our hope that the spirit of the Convention on Climate Change and the Berlin Mandate will be fully encompassed by the protocol or legal instrument to emerge from the Kyoto Conference to be held in December 1997. What has been touched upon represents huge challenges beyond the capacity of any country to face on its own. This is why it is so vital for the United Nations, now more than ever before, to be a forum where we can pool creative ideas and lessons from our experience and to assist us in understanding and coping with these challenges. This is the ultimate rationale of reform. We will be ready to work with other countries to rebuild the United Nations in the image of our collective aspirations and as our trusted instrument to meet the challenges of the approaching century. Addressing the General Assembly at its fifteenth regular session, I recall India’s first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, saying here in 1960: “The main purpose of the United Nations is to build up a world without war, a world based on the cooperation of nations and peoples. It is not merely a world where war is kept in check for a balancing of armed forces. It is much deeper than that. It is a world from which the major causes of war have been removed and social structures built up which further peaceful cooperation within a nation as well as between nations.” (Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifteenth session, Plenary Meetings, 882nd meeting, para. 117) It is in this spirit that we should approach the tasks before us. I do hope and pray that, under your guidance, Sir, and under the spirited leadership of the Secretary- General, these objectives will be achieved.  ﻿I have the honour to convey to all representatives the warm greetings and good wishes of His Majesty Jigme Singye Wangchuck, King of Bhutan, for the success of the fifty-second session of the United Nations General Assembly. May I express, Sir, my heartfelt congratulations on your election to the high office of the presidency of the General Assembly. We are confident that with your vast personal experience and in-depth knowledge of the United Nations you will lead our deliberations in this important session to a fruitful conclusion. I would like to express our deep appreciation to Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia for the bold and innovative manner in which he led the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. I would like to take this opportunity to pay a special tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his dynamic leadership of our Organization. I wish to congratulate him on his comprehensive report on the reform of the United Nations and also to express our appreciation to the Executive Coordinator for Reform and his team for their valuable contribution. This session of the General Assembly has been widely regarded as a session for the reform of the United Nations. I shall therefore confine my remarks to this subject. The question of United Nations reform is not a new issue and has been the subject of ongoing discussions. We share the view that concrete steps must be taken this year so that the feeling of uncertainty can be put behind us and we can concentrate on other important challenges that confront our Organization. Before we embark on the task of reforming the United Nations it is important that we first understand what the United Nations means to different Member States. The United Nations is certainly unparalleled in history as a forum for international dialogue and cooperation, as well as for the maintenance of international peace and security. However, for many of the larger Members it remains but one of several means of pursuing their national interests. For smaller Member countries, however, the United Nations remains the primary Organization for the protection and expression of their sovereignty. Many of them also rely heavily on the United Nations for their economic and social advancement. Any reform of the United Nations must therefore take into account the needs and aspirations of the majority of its Members, which are small developing countries. The United Nations must be able to protect the political independence of its smaller Members and support their social and economic development in order to enable them to meet their aspirations for peace and development without undue pressures or interference from outside. The proposal for reform submitted by the Secretary- General is significant in that he has not only sought the views of Member States but has also taken into account the perspective of the United Nations staff, for the changes would have a direct bearing on their functions and responsibilities. In our view, this effort to involve Members States as well as the United Nations staff will provide a congenial atmosphere in which to discuss reforms and their subsequent implementation. With regard to the reforms, there are clearly areas which fall within the mandate of the Secretary-General. It is our view that reforms which are already moving ahead in some areas must be allowed to do so. We find merit in clustering together various divisions within the United Nations Secretariat in the core areas of peace and security, humanitarian affairs, economic and social affairs and human rights. We also find the various coordination and planning mechanisms being put in place among the new broad clusters necessary and useful. We look forward to receiving from the Secretary- General his report on the measures he is taking to implement the organizational changes which are within his mandate. While the General Assembly and some of the existing consultative mechanisms exist and will no doubt be used for interaction with the Secretariat, there should be mechanisms by which the general membership can interact with the newly formed divisions. The new post of Deputy Secretary-General is necessary in our view, given the formidable number of responsibilities that the Secretary-General currently has to shoulder. The role of the Deputy Secretary-General should, however, be clearly defined in the larger interests of the Organization. The question of refocusing the work of the General Assembly itself is an interesting proposal which we fully support. The long debates in the Assembly, as well as in numerous Committees, and the large number of issues and resolutions, are well beyond the capacity of many of the smaller Member countries to handle. We support the 4 idea of dealing with thematic issues, both within the plenary and the Committees, during the annual sessions. We also support the view that the follow-up to all global conferences should be properly tied to the work of the General Assembly. The resolutions and other decisions adopted during the General Assembly must be organized in such a manner that they will have a direct bearing on the work of the Secretariat, providing both guidance and direction. The proposed Development Group that has been constituted, bringing greater coordination of the three key United Nations development agencies — namely, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) — is of special interest to the majority of small developing countries to which the activities of these agencies provide significant support. It must be recognized that the coordination among these three agencies must support the ongoing programmes which these agencies have arrived at with individual countries and that the changes should be brought about without any disruption to the current programmes, both in financial and programming terms. As a country which has benefited greatly from the activities of UNDP, UNICEF and UNFPA, we express our gratitude to these and other United Nations bodies and specialized agencies for their assistance to my country. The experience of Bhutan and many smaller developing countries clearly indicates that there is a continued role for these United Nations bodies and agencies. It is our hope that with better coordination within the Development Group and field-level implementation of their activities there will be enhanced financial support by the donor community. The proposal by the Secretary-General to have a high- level ministerial commission to review the work of other United Nations agencies and their relationship with the General Assembly and the Secretariat is timely. The work of the specialized agencies is extremely important, and it is time their methods of work and their activities were reviewed so that all United Nations programmes are better synchronized. All the efforts to reform and revitalize the United Nations will not be possible if the United Nations does not have a sound financial position. The financial health of the United Nations must be restored. All members must work earnestly towards meeting this objective. We welcome the Secretary-General’s proposal to create a revolving credit fund to meet the Organization’s funding. However, the primary requirement must be met from the assessed contributions of Member States. In this regard, it is our view that the negotiations on the scale of assessments must proceed and be resolved at an early date in a manner that is acceptable to all Member States. We also firmly believe that all Member States must meet their financial obligations to the Organization through the unconditional payment of their assessed dues in full and on time. The United Nations must also institute more dynamic means of fund management, including utilization of the financial market in a prudent manner. All legal restrictions to such management should be reviewed. One of the most important issues relating to the reform of the United Nations remains the membership of the Security Council. It is our view that the discussions on this issue, emanating from complex and fundamentally inequitable premises, have led to the current difficulties. However, the continued status quo does not benefit the vast majority of Member States. Bhutan fully supports the Non-Aligned Movement’s position that there must be expansion of the permanent membership to include the developed and developing countries and that there should be additional non-permanent seats. The expansion must take into account the new security needs and the objective criteria, of who would best be able to shoulder the new responsibilities. We believe that on the basis of objective criteria, Japan, as one of the foremost economic and political powers in the world today, qualifies for permanent membership. Among developing countries, India’s case merits serious consideration for permanent membership due to its massive population — one out of nearly six people on our planet is an Indian — and its great economic potential, in addition to the fact that India has played an active role in all United Nations activities. Discussion on the expansion must continue, and we should not be deterred by the complex nature of the subject. We remain confident that an early and equitable solution can be found. It is our hope that the reform of the United Nations and the renewal of the United Nations can be completed in the two remaining years of this century, so that during the millennium session of the General Assembly, in the year 2000, we can concentrate on the vision and aspirations of mankind for the twenty-first century.  ﻿Allow me first of all, on behalf of the delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, to congratulate Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko, the Minister For Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its current session. We believe that his rich experience and diplomatic skill in dealing with international affairs will lead this session to fruitful results. I also express my gratitude to the former President, Mr. Razali Ismail, Malaysian Ambassador to the United Nations, for his great contributions to the successful conclusion of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. At the same time, I take this opportunity to express appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his efforts devoted to the activities of the United Nations. The fifty-second session of the General Assembly is now being held just two years before we enter a new century. The twenty-first century should be different from the present century, characterized by a history of hot and cold wars. It is the desire of humankind and the common task of the international community to make the forthcoming century peaceful and prosperous. 17 Though we are at the end of the twentieth century, we are still facing complex and intricate challenges. A tendency towards domination continues to prevail in international relations even after the abolition of colonialism. Today the United Nations, which once contributed to eradicating colonialism, has been placed in danger of being converted into a tool that would allow high-handedness and arbitrariness. Though the cold war has ended, the nuclear stockpiles remain as enormous as ever before, and the thinking of the cold-war era dominates international relations. Today such challenges are clearest in North-East Asia and, more precisely, in the Korean peninsula. In the Korean peninsula, national division, the legacy of the cold war era, continues, the power and confrontation politics of the cold war era persist and relations between the North and South of Korea are ever worsening. The aggressive military alliances, vestiges of the cold war, are being rearranged, and provocative joint military exercises are being conducted against the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea with annually increased military expenditures amid the tense situation in the Korean peninsula. In addition to the military pressures, which have continued since the cold war era, issues such as human rights, terrorism, economic sanctions, food aid and so on are also being abused as tools for high- handedness and interference in our internal affairs. All these attempts are aimed at stifling our socialist system. Like all other United Nations Member States, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is a sovereign State with the right to choose its own political system, and it deserves respect for this. Our style of socialism is the one our people have chosen by themselves, and it is not a system doomed to collapse even though others may attempt to bring this about. The single-hearted unity between the leader, the party and the masses is the source of the invincibility of our system. On 8 July this year, which marked the third year of the demise of the great leader President Kim Il Sung, all our people became mourners and observed the memorial service. Simultaneously with the end of the mourning period, we instituted a Juche calendar with the year 1912 as the base year, and designated 15 April as the Day of Sun in memory of the birthday of the great leader President Kim Il Sung. This affords a good illustration of the unanimous will of our people who are determined to hand down, forever, the revolutionary life and the immortal exploits of the fatherly leader who created the Juche idea and built socialism centred on the popular masses. Today is 2 October, Juche 86 in our country, according to our Juche Calendar. For our Korean people, the last three years have been a period of severe trials during which our people suffered the greatest loss of the nation, confronted the persistent manoeuvres of the hostile forces to stifle our socialist system and suffered from a series of natural calamities. Nevertheless, our people have been always optimistic and able to continue their victorious advancement by overcoming all sorts of challenges, because they hold in high esteem another great leader, General Kim Jong Il, an iron-willed and brilliant commander. Currently, the nomination process is under way in my country to elect the great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il as the General Secretary of the Korean Workers’ Party, and all our people are full of boundless joy and emotion over their long-cherished desire being realized. This clearly demonstrates the firm will and conviction of our people to carry through the Juche cause, holding in high esteem forever the great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il as the head of our Party and our revolution. This is the reality of socialist Korea, where the people enjoy the blessing of the leadership and the leader enjoys the blessing of the people through the generations. I take this opportunity to reiterate our deep thanks to the Governments, organizations and individuals of various countries, and to the governmental and non-governmental international organizations, including the United Nations, for their deep sympathy and condolences, as well as for the humanitarian assistance extended to our people who suffered the deepest sorrow and natural calamities. Korea’s reunification question is, in essence, a question of regaining national sovereignty throughout the country, which is being trampled by foreign forces and of abolishing the legacy of the cold war era. The Government of our Republic regards as its Three Charters for National Reunification the three principles of independence, peaceful reunification and great national unity, the 10-Point Programme of the Great Unity of the Whole Nation and the proposal for the founding of the Democratic Confederal Republic of Koryo. 18 The great leader General Kim Jong Il, in his programmatic work published on 4 August of this year, made clear our firm will and determination to clearly reunify the country, holding aloft the Three Charters of National Reunification set forth by the fatherly leader. The three principles of national reunification constitute the great common reunification programme for the Korean nation, which was confirmed by the north and south through their 4 July Joint Statement and was supported by the twenty- eighth session of the United Nations General Assembly as well. The 10-Point Programme of the Great Unity of the Whole Nation for National Reunification is a political programme aimed at attaining the unity of the whole nation to strengthen the driving force of national reunification. This programme indicates comprehensively the objective and ideological basis, as well as the principles and methods, for achieving the great national unity. The proposed Democratic Confederal Republic of Koryo is the blueprint which gives the full picture of a reunified State and the ways for its realization as well. More than half a century has passed since the north and south of Korea have existed with different systems. Under such circumstances, the establishment of a unified national State through the confederation formula — based on one nation and one State, two systems and two Governments — becomes the most reasonable way of efficiently resolving the issues pertaining to national reunification. The emergence of a unified national State — independent, peaceful and neutral — in the Korean peninsula will make a great contribution to lasting peace and stability in North-East Asia, where the great Powers are contiguous to each other. No matter how the situation and circumstances may change in the future, our people will remain unshakeable in their will, and the Government of our Republic will adhere to its consistent reunification policy in reunifying the country, on the basis of the Three Charters for National Reunification. Improved relations between the north and south of Korea are an urgent requirement for achieving the independent and peaceful reunification of the country. If the south Korean authorities give up their anti-national and anti-reunification confrontation policies and make a positive change in practice, we will meet them at any time to have open-minded negotiations on the destiny of the nation and make joint efforts for the country’s reunification. For a correct solution to the Korean question, the countries concerned must also play positive roles with a sincere attitude about helping Korea’s reunification. The United States, a State party which is directly responsible for the Korean question, should make a radical change in its anachronistic policy towards Korea and refrain from laying obstacles in the way of the independent and peaceful reunification of Korea. Japan, which imposed immeasurable misfortune and disaster upon the Korean people in the past, must sincerely reflect upon its past, discontinue its hostile policy towards our Republic and stop provoking Korea’s division and hindering its reunification. It is the consistent stand of the Government of our Republic to prevent war and to ensure a lasting peace in the Korean peninsula. This becomes our primary task in the efforts to reunify the country peacefully, without recourse to the armed forces. In order to ensure peace in the Korean peninsula, it is imperative to oppose aggression and war manoeuvres and to remove the danger of war. The prevailing situation in the Korean peninsula is so tense that a war could break out at any moment, due to the attempts of the United States, Japan and South Korean authorities against our socialist Republic. In recent years alone, the United States introduced over $3 billion worth of war equipment into South Korea. At the same time, it has been conducting joint military exercises more frequently than ever before, and even directing the guns of the United States forces in Japan and the Pacific fleet towards the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. Of late, Japan is also accelerating its political, legal and diplomatic moves with a view to legalizing its engagement of the self-defence force in a possible Korean war under the signboard of the “revision” of the “Guidelines for United States-Japan Military Cooperation”. In addition, the South Korean authorities increased their military budget up to $17 billion for this year and again decided to increase next year’s military budget up to $19 billion, while bolstering military “cooperation” with foreign forces against their fellow countrymen. Such moves, reflecting the policies of the cold-war era, inevitably provoke self-defensive counter-measures 19 from our Republic, thus maintaining the present tense situation in a vicious cycle of aggravation. This situation of the Korean peninsula urgently requires the establishment of a new peace arrangement. In order to ease tension and avert the danger of a war in the Korean peninsula, the United States should, before anything else, abandon its hostile policy against our Republic and sign a peace agreement with the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States are still in a state of temporary ceasefire. The United States is in direct confrontation with the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, maintaining tens of thousands of its troops in and around South Korea. Removing the danger of war and ensuring peace in the Korean peninsula presupposes the withdrawal of the United States troops and the conclusion of a peace agreement between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States. Hence, the resolution of the major issues pertaining to the maintenance of peace and security in the Korean peninsula falls under the responsibilities of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States. We recognize that these issues should be the top priority on the agenda to be considered at the proposed four-party talks if the talks are to be held to discuss the issues of ensuring peace and security in the Korean peninsula. If the United States is sincerely interested in ensuring peace in the Korean peninsula, it should, inter alia, show its credibility by taking practical steps to discontinue military threats and lift economic sanctions against the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. The countries concerned should refrain from any acts that would be likely to impede the withdrawal of the United States troops from South Korea and the conclusion of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea-United States peace agreement. The Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will continue, as in the past, to make every effort to ensure peace in the Korean peninsula and to bring about the peaceful reunification of the country, thus contributing towards peace and security in North-East Asia and the rest of the world. In order to prepare itself for the demands of the next century, the United Nations should make an early departure from outdated structures that serve the interests of only a few countries, allowing them privileges and high- handedness. First of all, international society should be democratized through the democratic reform of the United Nations. The United Nations should be restructured so as to reflect the will of developing countries, which make up the majority of United Nations Members, and to enable them to exercise their sovereignty on an equal footing. The General Assembly, in which all United Nations Member States are equally represented, has been democratized, compared to the Security Council. Yet its authority has been severely restricted. On the other hand, the Security Council lacks democracy to a great extent, although it enjoys powerful authority. The present composition of the permanent membership of the Security Council does not fully represent the developing countries, which form the overwhelming majority of Member States. Neither does the non-permanent membership reflect geographical representation. The end of the cold war has provided possibilities for channelling more resources into the field of development cooperation, but the present structure of the United Nations system does not correspond to this situation. At this session of the General Assembly the delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will exert constructive efforts to resolve such problems and seek active cooperation with other Member States, including the non-aligned countries. Despite the end of the cold war, the arms build-up continues unabated in different parts of the world. The United Nations has long called for comprehensive and complete disarmament, especially nuclear disarmament. However, some nuclear and military Powers are still boosting their efforts aimed at the qualitative modernization of military strength under cover of calls for selective disarmament. As a result, in most cases disarmament is now being replaced by the process of replacing with more sophisticated weapons those that have become obsolete as a result of technical developments. Today, after the conclusion of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, the nuclear Powers are resorting to subcritical nuclear tests to further modernize their nuclear arsenals. International society, and the non-nuclear-weapon States in particular, should give due attention to taking measures to overcome this phenomenon. It is in this 20 context that we support the proposal to convene the fourth special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament. In recent years there have been ample discussions on human rights at the United Nations and in other international forums. However, the desired results have not yet been achieved. This is mainly attributable to the fact that United Nations Member States are pursuing different ends in their deliberations on human rights and have conflicting views with regard to standards for human rights. As long as human rights issues continue to be abused as a political means to put pressure on and interfere in the internal affairs of others, any deliberations on human rights will only have adverse effects upon international relations, as is the case today. Furthermore, the application of double standards has not ceased with regard to other crucial issues such as disarmament and terrorism. In order to eliminate high-handedness and arbitrariness, and also to ensure fairness and justice in resolving international issues, international society should be democratized at the earliest possible date. The twenty-first century should be a century devoted to development and cooperation. Development is directly linked to international peace and security. In recent years major conferences, such as World Summit for Social Development, the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements and the World Food Summit, were convened under the auspices of the United Nations. These conferences made significant contributions to elaborating action programmes and providing guidance for international society with regard to cooperation in the field of economic and social development. The role of the United Nations should be further strengthened to translate these documents into tangible results. The United Nations has an important role in persuading developed countries fully to implement their commitments concerning official development assistance and should pay due attention to resolving the issue of external debt. We are of the view that the ongoing reform process of United Nations-affiliated organizations dealing with economic and social issues and of the United Nations Secretariat should be carried out in such a way as to enable them to make the best use of their potential for development and cooperation. Developed countries are urged to be wise enough to foresee that replacing the present unfair international economic relations with new ones that are more fair, will, in the long term, be beneficial to them, and they should cooperate fully with other Member States in enhancing the role of the United Nations in that direction. We appreciate and support the joint efforts of the countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America to expand and strengthen regional cooperation for political sovereignty and socio-economic development in a spirit of collective self-reliance. We support Syria and other Arab countries in their just struggle to seek a fair and comprehensive solution to the Middle East problem based on the principle of land for peace, and hold that Israel should withdraw from all occupied Arab territories. The Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea adheres to the main ideal of our foreign policy of independence, peace and friendship in conformity with the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter, and will continue to do so in the future. The delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will make every sincere effort for the success of deliberations on all agenda items that are before the General Assembly at this session.  ﻿First of all, I would like to refer to the intervention which will be made tomorrow by the Foreign Minister of Luxembourg on behalf of the European Union. I should also like to congratulate the Foreign Minister of Ukraine on his election as President of the General Assembly. Allow me to reflect a bit on the fact that three decades ago a Danish Prime Minister, Mr. Jens Otto Krag, presented our yearly address to the twenty-second session of the General Assembly. The challenges of today are not very similar to those of that time, and yet they are no less complex nor of lesser magnitude. For the United Nations to face these challenges, the Organization must adapt. It must reform, must change and must modernize. That is why reform must be a priority for this session of the General Assembly. And that, in all humility, is why I am here today: to support the Secretary-General and the General Assembly and to do what I can on behalf of my country in order to reach our goal at the end of this session and to help make decisions that are necessary in order to modernize and to reform. Since the twenty-second session of the General Assembly, 30 years ago, we have seen disappointments. We have seen civil wars. We have seen frustrations, backlashes and incredible suffering. Yet we have also seen light. We have seen peace where war once raged. We have seen former enemies living peacefully together. Indeed, we have seen apartheid disappear. We have seen the Berlin Wall fall. We have seen the oppressed coming out of jails and being elected leaders of their countries, and some of them rank among the world's most outstanding leaders. We have seen the winds of change sweep over entire continents. I believe this: if our generation cannot believe in the impossible, who can? If our generation cannot take the decisions that are necessary, who else can? All in all, I think this is of crucial importance for the United Nations. A reform programme for the United Nations is not only about a more efficient use of scarce resources. It is also, and more importantly, about strengthening and revitalizing the Organization so that it can effectively carry out its core activities and meet the challenges of the future. It must be a reform closer to the people, a reform closer to non-governmental organizations and parliamentarians, a reform unifying Governments, the United Nations and peoples. 11 The core activities and priorities are very clearly described in the Secretary-General's reform programme. With great precision and clarity, the Secretary-General has spelled out elements that my Government fully subscribes to: peace and security, economic and social affairs; development cooperation; humanitarian affairs; and, as an activity cutting across the others, human rights - because human rights makes the United Nations the people's United Nations. These core functions of the United Nations are interdependent and mutually supportive. No amount of funding will create sustainable development without peace, good governance and respect for human rights. None of our efforts in the field of peace and security or humanitarian relief will have a lasting effect without efforts to create sustainable development. Denmark gives its full support to the reform programme of the Secretary-General. We consider the programme, in its totality, to be a significant contribution towards strengthening the Organization and towards making it more responsive, legitimate and efficient. I also note the spirit of the Secretary-General in creating much greater motivation among the employees of the United Nations and much shorter lines between the Secretary-General and all the rest of the people working for our common goal and cause, here in this House and all around the world. Reform is about shifting resources to the core functions of the United Nations: shifting resources from administration to development - in short, getting more value for money, centrally, on the national level and locally. The reform programme constitutes a package. It should be dealt with by the General Assembly as such. The programme as a whole should receive the political endorsement of the Assembly in the coming weeks. My country endorses the package fully and wholly. Ground-breaking work has been carried out on the way towards Security Council reform. Expansion of the membership of the Council is essential to enhance its legitimacy. At the same time, its effectiveness and decision- making capacity must be safeguarded. But - and I think that there is a 'but' - we must unify in order to reform. We are gathered to reform, to open a new chapter of reforming and modernizing the United Nations. It has to be said that no institution can discharge its functions without a sound financial basis. Member States' fulfilment of their financial obligations must be considered the touchstone of their attachment to the United Nations. I am not a billionaire; I am probably not even a millionaire. I am the Prime Minister of my country, and I know the way to go. I know, on behalf of my country, our obligations. I also know, on behalf of my country, the financial duties my country has. I therefore hope that this session will also be a turning point for all Member countries of the United Nations, because a sound financial basis first and foremost requires that Member States pay their contributions in full, on time and without any conditions. The contributions of Member States must be based on their capacity to pay. Therefore let us join, as we have done on the reform process, to finance the United Nations on its path to the next century. Political instability, violence and the collapse of the structures of society have led to massive movements of refugee populations. Large numbers of people - millions of people - have fled to regions far from their homes. We are deeply concerned about this situation. We must do our utmost to support the humanitarian organizations in their efforts to assist refugees and other displaced persons as close to their local environments as possible: as close to their homes as possible. Yet refugees and other displaced persons cannot return to their homes so long as anti-personnel mines remain scattered throughout the countryside, so long as human beings by the thousand are being injured or killed when they work their fields, so long as children cannot go to school without risking losing a limb on their way. Mr. Secretary-General, you said it yourself in your speech in Oslo: you underlined that the very presence, or just the fear of the presence, of only one mine can stop the work in a whole village, can stop the work in a whole field, can make it impossible for families, or whole villages, to survive and to create proper living conditions. We must realize that, without mines, we would have countries that could double or triple their agricultural production and thereby help themselves. We must get rid of these anti-personnel mines and must do it today rather than tomorrow. I look forward to the day when the last anti- personnel mine has been produced. That will be a good day for mankind. I look forward to the day when the last anti-personnel mine has been removed. That will be a good day for mankind, and that day must come soon. I look forward to the day when a United Nations convention will settle this matter so that it never comes before us again. 12 We must at the same time work at improving the basic conditions of life for ordinary people in areas of conflict. Only in this way can we prevent people from becoming permanent refugees. In the past year we have once again experienced how quickly crises can break out in different parts of the world. This underlines the need for the international community to be able to react swiftly and in unity in order to prevent the spread of violence and human suffering. As the Secretary- General has noted, my country, Denmark, has taken the initiative to establish a multinational standby high readiness brigade (SHIRBRIG) within the framework of United Nations standby agreements. The planning element for the brigade was officially inaugurated by the Secretary-General earlier this month in my country. The initiative is being taken to increase the rapid-reaction capability, and it must be carried forward. Improvements in the planning capacity of the United Nations are under way and will help reduce the overall response time. Capacity within other areas must be enhanced as well. Civilian police has proved crucial in many of the recent operations. We must improve both the capacity and the training of civilian police officers. Next year we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of a major achievement in the history of mankind: the 1948 adoption by the General Assembly of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The noble object of the Declaration is the protection of individuals - not the interests of States. All human beings are equal and deserve equal protection against abuse. Therefore the standards of the Declaration are by their very nature universal. Any denunciation of human rights obligations is unacceptable and demonstrates a lack of respect for human dignity. On the subject of credibility, I wish to underline that a connection must also be made between violence and human rights violations and the consequences. I think, therefore, that a significant recent development since the adoption of the Declaration is the establishment of the office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights. I welcome the new High Commissioner, Mrs. Mary Robinson. She will receive our full support in her endeavours to promote and ensure universal respect for human rights. But respect for human rights demands also international justice. After the Nuremberg trials we all believed that the Holocaust would never happen again, and yet new genocides are haunting us. Therefore, we need a permanent international criminal court. We will not allow crimes against humanity to go unpunished. This is a fundamental question of credibility, a fundamental question of consequence and of justice. Setting a precise date for a diplomatic conference in 1998 is essential to maintain the momentum for the early establishment of the court, by the end of this decade. The need to assist the poorest countries is as important as ever. The poorest countries do not, I believe, attract sufficient private capital flows, nor do they have the potential to benefit from the liberalization of international trade. It is time for action. It is time to narrow the gap between rhetoric and action. I would remind the Assembly of the World Summit for Social Development, held in Copenhagen, and I would recall the obligations undertaken there and our vision of narrowing the gap between rhetoric and practical action. Education, health and participation for women are fundamentals. The role of the United Nations system in the field of economic and social development is indispensable. I should like to emphasize in particular the importance of the United Nations as an Organization operating with a global mandate and on the basis of a global approach of sustainable development, security and good governance. Let me mention by way of example the World Conference on Women, held in Beijing. It should be a primary task for the United Nations system to ensure an effective follow-up to these conferences. The United Nations should be at the forefront of the global efforts to ensure sustainable development for all. And yet let us be direct, clear and honest. The United Nations development organizations concerned are entirely dependent on voluntary contributions, and these have, regrettably, followed a decreasing trend in recent years. I think it is fair to say that the United Nations development organizations themselves can be partly blamed for the emerging funding crisis. All too often they have failed to cooperate. Many donors have been frustrated to see United Nations organizations engage in a costly competition for funds. The mere fact that it has not been possible until now for the United Nations organizations to establish common premises at the country level is an example of this situation. Here again I feel that the Secretary-General's reform proposals are a significant contribution towards redressing this unfortunate situation. Let us have one coordinated United Nations house in each country, and let us not compete among United Nations organizations but 13 cooperate effectively. That is a vision that we want to follow and to support. The many, many problems faced by minorities in our world, and not least by indigenous peoples, must be addressed in a coherent manner. We must ensure that indigenous peoples are given real influence on matters pertaining to them. That is why my country, Denmark - in close cooperation with the indigenous population of Greenland - has called upon the United Nations and its Member States to establish, within the framework of the Economic and Social Council, a permanent forum for indigenous peoples. This forum should have a broad mandate to cover a wide range of issues. Indigenous peoples themselves must be ensured the possibility of active and effective participation in its establishment and in its function. The United Nations is the future for all of us on this globe - a future that can be improved by closer cooperation with regional organizations. This cooperation must be strengthened. Since the political changes in Europe that began at the end of the 1980s, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) has taken on an important role in that region. This role is a natural expression of its status as a regional arrangement under Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United Nations. The OSCE cooperates closely with the United Nations in a number of areas. By taking on responsibility within its own geographical area, the OSCE contributes to the United Nations ability to deal with crises elsewhere. As Chairman-in-Office of the OSCE, my Foreign Minister has given high priority to strengthening the relationship between the OSCE and the United Nations. We have frequent contact with the Secretary-General and have encouraged closer relations between the secretariats. Let me conclude. It is time for reform, as the Secretary-General so wisely said, and I should like in this connection to make three points. My first point is that the reform programme put forward by the Secretary-General deserves our full support. If adopted, it will leave this Organization in much better shape. For the sake of our common future this is needed. Let us decide and let us follow up. My second point is this: we need the United Nations, and the United Nations needs us. We must ensure the necessary funding for the world Organization and its development agencies. We must do this to make the world a better and safer place. Every Member must pay in full, on time, without conditions. Finally, my third point: we must address the negative legacies of the past. We cannot solve the problem of refugees and displaced persons without making it possible for them to return to their homes. They cannot and will not do that as long as their physical well-being is threatened by inhumane anti-personnel mines and as long as their political future is threatened by war criminals who have not been brought to justice. Human rights are not just about words. It should also be a human right to be able to live a secure life. At the World Summit for Social Development at Copenhagen, we said, 'You cannot any longer have secure States without secure people inside'. This is what we need the United Nations to help us with. This is not a perfect world, but I remain an optimist. With the United Nations as an organization for the people and by the people, we can make this world a better place. Let us join hands to make the twenty-first century a happier one.  ﻿It gives me pleasure to extend to the President and to the members of the General Committee, on behalf of the delegation of the United Arab Emirates, our congratulations on his election to the presidency of the fifty-second session of the General Assembly. His experience and diplomatic skills will undoubtedly contribute to the success of its work. I would also like to express our appreciation to his predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail, the Permanent Representative of Malaysia, who conducted the work of the previous session with distinction. I take this opportunity also to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan on his election as Secretary- General of the United Nations. We are confident that his vast experience in international affairs and his competence and expertise will strengthen the role of the Organization in achieving international peace and security. I am also pleased to express, once again, our deep appreciation to the previous Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, whose efforts had a positive and concrete impact on the progress of the work of the world Organization. The present session is of special importance because of the major changes taking place on the world scene and the attendant far-reaching developments and transitions in the political, economic, social and environmental fields. Despite the state of openness that has characterized international relations, the success achieved in resolving some conflicts and the emergence of indications of relative improvement in the growth of the world economy, we are still facing new types of challenges. The most serious of these are reflected in racial, ideological, and ethnic conflicts and civil wars; the aggravation of poverty situations; human rights violations; violence; terrorism; and drugs. All of these have a negative effect on national security, the sovereignty of States and economic and social development. These challenges require cooperation and coordination between States at the bilateral, regional and international levels. The important role played by the United Nations and its specialized agencies in dealing with these new developments as a whole is now the major incentive for consolidating its permanence, supporting its objectives and upholding its Charter. This means that, more than ever before, we must provide it with the political, financial and moral support that will enable it to respond appropriately and promptly to emerging global needs. Having studied the report of the Secretary-General on the reform and renewal of the United Nations, the delegation of the United Arab Emirates welcomes in principle its recommendations and proposals aimed at strengthening and developing the work of the Organization and adapting it to the realities of the present-day world. At the same time, however, we wish to stress the importance of having the reforms reflect the aspirations of the countries of the world, particularly the developing countries, in achieving sustainable development and in promoting peace and security, stability and growth. We also support the international efforts aimed at enlarging and restructuring the Security Council and improving its rules of procedure with a view to ensuring equitable geographical representation and equality among States, achieving transparency and objectivity in the adoption of its resolutions and the follow-up to their implementation, and preventing double standards, which have proved to be too dangerous in many issues of peace and security. In addition, we support all proposals calling for the strengthening of cooperation and coordination between the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council and for widening the circle of dialogue and negotiations with regional organizations in order to achieve a broader, more effective and more comprehensive consensus for the appropriate approach to reform and renewal. Despite the initiatives and the relentless efforts of members of the Gulf Cooperation Council during the past few years to contain the devastating effects of the 21 conflicts in the Arab Gulf region, which has great importance to regional and international strategies, and their continuing endeavour to support progress towards joint reconstruction and cooperation, the unstable political and security conditions in the region remain a source of concern for us. Such a situation therefore requires the establishment of a balance based on a firm political will to support all regional arrangements aimed at eliminating the causes of conflict and situations of occupation. It also requires building bridges for multilateral cooperation, at both the bilateral and the collective level, on the basis of the principles of peaceful coexistence, confidence-building, non-interference in the internal affairs of others, mutual respect for regional sovereignties and the resolution of disputes by peaceful means rather than the use of force, in accordance with the rules of international law and the Charters of both the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the United Nations. The continued occupation since 1971 by the Islamic Republic of Iran of three islands belonging to the United Arab Emirates — Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa — is a major issue to which we and the other States of the region attach great importance. That occupation constitutes a source of constant tension, concern and instability in the region, particularly as the Iranian Government persists in changing the historic, legal and demographic character of the islands by constructing military and civilian installations and building bases on them. Examples of such measures are the construction of a branch of Bayan An-Nour University and two airports on the occupied islands of Abu Musa and Greater Tunb. Iran has also resorted to repeated military exercises conducted in the territorial waters of the United Arab Emirates, including those off the three islands, thus continuing to consolidate its occupation of the islands, persisting in its provocative policy and imposing a fait accompli by force. All this is in complete disregard of the dangerous consequences of this policy for the future and the territorial integrity of the region and for the aspirations of its peoples to peace, stability and the achievement of sustainable development. The United Arab Emirates expresses grave concern about all such illegal actions and practices, which not only constitute a flagrant violation of its territorial integrity and an infringement of its national rights, but are also contradictory to the peaceful inclinations of the States of the region and the world at large. We therefore renew our call to the Islamic Government of Iran to fulfil its legal and political obligations and undo all its unilateral actions in the three Emirates islands. This would prove that its intentions were good and give credence to its stated policy, especially given certain recent statements by some Iranian officials calling for the resolution of existing disputes through peaceful means and expressing their desire to establish stability and security in the region. The United Arab Emirates welcomed the new Iranian Government and its declared orientation, especially with regard to the promotion of good- neighbourly relations, the elimination of tensions and the peaceful solution of disputes in the region. We hope that the Iranian Government will consider all our peaceful initiatives in a spirit of objectivity and cooperation. These initiatives have already been supported by sister, friendly and other States, and call either for serious bilateral negotiations, without preconditions, to be entered into, or for the dispute to be submitted to the International Court of Justice. Resorting to policies of violence and force, stockpiling banned weapons and using terrorism to deal with the concerns about the political and security balance in the region must not become an alternative to dialogue or to efforts to bolster the mechanisms for building peace and achieving the economic and social development of the countries of the region. For this reason, we support all measures taken by the States of the region to protect their sovereignty, security and territorial integrity. We stress the importance of full respect for the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of Iraq and consider that the suffering of the Iraqi people should be dealt with within the framework of implementation of Security Council resolution 986 (1995). We also urge the Iraqi Government to carry out in full all its legal obligations under the relevant Security Council resolutions, especially those dealing with the release of all prisoners of war and detainees who are citizens of Kuwait and other countries, and the restitution of Kuwaiti property. The peace process in the Middle East is at a perilous juncture as a result of Israeli Government policies reneging on most of its obligations with regard to the peace process and the principle of land for peace, which are based on Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). Such policies constitute a flagrant violation of humanitarian law, international legitimacy and the accords concluded between the Palestinian Authority and the Government of Israel, as do the ensuing serious actions, including the expansion of illegal settler activities 22 in Palestinian and other Arab territories occupied since 1967, particularly in Jerusalem; the expropriation of Palestinian lands and the demolition of houses; resort to alleged security reasons in order to carry out measures of collective punishment; and the imposition of an economic blockade. The United Arab Emirates strongly condemns all such irresponsible Israeli policies and actions, and reiterates the importance of continuing the peace process as the only alternative for the stability and security of that region, regardless of the obstacles and challenges it is facing. It calls upon the international community, especially the United Nations, and the sponsors of the peace process to shoulder their legal, political, historical and humanitarian responsibilities. We welcome the efforts of the Secretary of State of the United States of America during her recent tour of the region and hope that she will continue her endeavours to ensure that the Palestinian-Israeli accords are implemented and that negotiations on the Syrian and Lebanese tracks are resumed on the basis of the principle of land for peace and the inadmissibility of unilateral actions that would only prejudice the final phase of the negotiations. We also commend the tireless efforts of the countries of the European Union to persuade the Israeli Government to reverse its policy and seriously abide by all of its commitments in the context of the peace accords and international legality, in a manner that would enable the Palestinian people to exercise their legitimate rights to self- determination, repatriation and the establishment of their independent State on their national soil, with Jerusalem its capital. In the same context, and given that the other Arab parties adhere to the peace process as a sine qua non strategic objective strategy, the Israeli Government must make a similarly serious commitment to end its occupation of, and repeated attacks against, the territory of Lebanon in implementation of Security Council resolution 425 (1978) and to resume unconditional negotiations on the Syrian and Lebanese tracks so as to ensure its full withdrawal from the Syrian Arab Golan to the lines of 4 June 1967, as well as from southern Lebanon and the west of the Bekaa valley. The requirements of security, stability and a just and lasting peace in the region are urgent not only for Israel, but for all the countries of that region. Consequently, we emphasize the inalienable right of peoples to resist occupation and aggression and condemn all forms of terrorism, whether they are aimed against individuals or practised by States, because terrorism has a direct impact in undermining regional and international stability and security. We also regard the stockpiling of banned weapons and the threat of their use against other States as another dangerous manifestation of terrorism. We therefore urge the international community and the relevant international organizations to make effective efforts to render the region of the Middle East and the Arab Gulf a zone free of all weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear weapons, and to demand that Israel accede to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and comply with the international control and safeguards system of the International Atomic Energy Agency. Efforts by the United Nations and the regional organizations to deal with national and regional tensions and conflicts, as well as with the concomitant destruction of development infrastructure and human suffering in some developing countries, have not resulted in the containment of the causes or extent of such conflicts. In the European continent, for example, manifestations of tension and ethnic and racial bias still persist among some factions in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a result of the continued pursuit by certain Bosnian Serbs of policies that conflict with the peaceful solutions of the Dayton peace accords. There are also situations of tension, insecurity and conflict battering parts of the continents of Asia and Africa, such as Afghanistan, Somalia, the Great Lakes region and other areas. It is therefore imperative that more effective international and regional efforts be made in order to find peaceful and objective solutions to those conflicts. We also call upon the parties directly concerned to work and cooperate with efforts and endeavours designed to contain such situations in order to achieve peace and stability at the national and regional levels. The first positive results achieved by globalization, development and the growth of world trade have not met the expectations of countries in advancing and strengthening their development or environmental and social policies. This is particularly true in the developing and least developed regions that continue to suffer from the spread of poverty, unemployment and illiteracy, as well as the burden of foreign debts, in addition to fluctuations in the rates of exchange and several other problems. The creation of an equitable and just economic environment built on a foundation of cooperation requires joint efforts by developing countries on the one hand, and by developing and developed countries on the other. We 23 must also take into consideration the special requirements of the least developed countries, in particular by increasing, rather than decreasing, official assistance to them and by lifting existing trade barriers and economic obstacles. This would contribute to a sharing of common responsibilities and interests among them. We also support all efforts aimed at promoting and enhancing the role of regional and international development organizations, at the forefront of which are the World Trade Organization, the World Bank and others, each within its own mandate, in the implementation of a global strategy for comprehensive development. In seeking to enhance its participation in such regional and international institutions, the United Arab Emirates, thanks to the wise guidance of its Head of State, His Highness Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al-Nahyan, has achieved a qualitative and quantitative leap in the developmental, economic, social, environmental and human fields in the past two decades. It contributed, to a large degree, to the expansion of the bases for investment, commerce, industry and the liberalization of trade. It therefore continued to provide development assistance to the developing and least developed countries, including, for example, humanitarian assistance and concessional loans provided by the Abu Dhabi Development Fund, the Zayed Benevolent Society and other multipurpose humanitarian institutions. Within the framework of our commitment to enhancing the contribution of the private sector in supporting the activities of the United Nations, we are pleased to announce that we shall be hosting a conference on the role of the private sector in supporting the United Nations, which is scheduled to be held in the Emirate of Dubai in mid-October. That will be in line with our policy of continuing to hold a series of multifaceted regional and international conferences and exhibitions in the cultural, social, economic, political and environmental fields. All these are regarded as complementing the United Nations efforts in the various areas of sustainable development. In conclusion, I should like to stress the need to adopt values of security, peace and freedom as the formula for attaining a deeper understanding and a more comprehensive view of the issues of our common destiny. Let us, then, unite our efforts in building a world based on respect for the rule of law and justice, a world where peace, tolerance, prosperity and progress reign supreme.﻿Sir, your rich experience in the United Nations system, your country — Ukraine — your current responsibilities and your personality assure us of the competence and dedication with which you will fulfil your mission as President of the fifty-second session of the United Nations General Assembly. We would like to extend our most sincere congratulations and our gratitude to your predecessor, Ambassador Ismail Razali of Malaysia, for a full, hard- working and stimulating fifty-first session. We reiterate our encouragement and support to the Secretary-General, 22 Mr. Kofi Annan. We also wish to commend the work which he and his team have accomplished in only nine months. Last Thursday, 25 September, the Security Council issued a statement on the situation in Africa, in which it said: “The Security Council reaffirms the responsibility of all Member States to settle their international disputes by peaceful means and its own primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations.” (S/PRST/1997/46) Burkina Faso shares this vision. Together with other African countries, it has become involved in subregional and regional initiatives with regard to our brother countries of Liberia, the Central African Republic and Burundi, to name only a few. Burkina Faso, whose confidence has been strengthened by that experience, reaffirms the inestimable value of preventive diplomacy. We therefore support any action designed to achieve that end, and call upon the United Nations to develop a genuine conflict-prevention policy. From north to south and from west to east, African States have been taking action on a continuous basis and in a variety of ways to deal with armed conflicts, political instability and internal disorder in our continent. Africa is daily demonstrating its clear determination to solve its own problems as a matter of priority by creating, among other things, a Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution. Having made the maximum regional contribution, therefore, to the resolution of these problems, it wonders why the Security Council seems not to be responding. Where does the Security Council’s chief responsibility lie? The worst thing that could happen to the Organization would be for Member States to begin to believe that our common institution has two different yardsticks. Our statements and appeals would then no longer be of any value, and our possible actions would be affected, and weakened. The purposes enshrined in the United Nations Charter — peace and security and economic and social development — can only be attained, consolidated and maintained by means of justice within nations, justice among nations and, therefore, justice throughout the world. The task is enormous. The justice demanded would not imply the end of the influence of power, but it would indicate whether such influence was positive or negative. With regard to disarmament, we must reaffirm the necessity of working towards the elimination of weapons of mass destruction, whether nuclear, chemical or biological. In Africa, the illicit traffic in small arms has had new and increasingly uncontrollable consequences, ranging from an increase in armed criminal acts to the proliferation of armed refugees. This provokes and adds to the instability of entire regions. My delegation would like to know what has become of the follow-up to the Secretary-General’s initiative under resolution 51/45 L on assistance to States for curbing the illicit traffic in small arms and collecting them. Burkina Faso welcomes the results of the Oslo conference on anti-personnel landmines, and urges all States to adhere as quickly as possible to the Convention adopted in Oslo, and above all to comply with its terms. Burkina Faso remains concerned by all situations of turmoil, instability and conflict, from Afghanistan and the former Yugoslavia to Cambodia. The illusions harboured after the end of the cold war are now giving way to a contrasting vision in which the factors of integration and disintegration in our world are becoming clearer. In Africa, the tragedy in Somalia has been followed by tragedies in the Great Lakes region and the Republic of Congo, while the Democratic Republic of the Congo is now embarking, with some hesitation, upon the road towards restoration. In Liberia, elections finally allowing that country to recover, too, and to contemplate the colossal task of national reconstruction are taking place. However, in the neighbouring country of Sierra Leone constitutional order has been violated and flouted. Burkina Faso reaffirms its resolute condemnation of the interruption of the democratic process in Sierra Leone as well as its adherence to decision 356, on the situation in Sierra Leone, taken by the Heads of State or Government of the Organization of African Unity at its thirty-third summit meeting in Harare. We welcome the significant advances made in Angola and urge all the parties, especially UNITA, to play a constructive role. In the Middle East, Burkina Faso is concerned about the repeated setbacks to the peace process and calls on the parties to ensure that acts of provocation do not create 23 a deadly chain of violence that would go against the interests of the peoples of the region. The international environment is undergoing a process of constant change under the combined effect of three phenomena: globalization of the economy and of threats; liberalization of markets; and the information and communications revolution. While we welcome the creation and consolidation of large economic and monetary groupings throughout the world, the upheavals created by globalization and the demands of a triumphant free-market model illustrate the fragile nature of the successes achieved, and show more clearly that moderation and justice are the basic requirements. Africa, like a patient being cared for on his sick-bed, has heard and heeded the diagnosis and the suggested remedies, including programmes, projects, agendas and special initiatives. This continent, which is engaged in a constant struggle, is achieving some results that run the risk of being wiped out by globalization, in that its international trade is continuing to decrease as a result mainly of outside factors, further increasing its marginalization. Developing countries expect the Agenda for Development, adopted during the fifty-first session of the General Assembly, to be a catalyst for a new global partnership for development. The sincerity of the commitment of each and every one of us will be judged according to the effectiveness of its implementation. In this regard, and on all economic and environmental issues, we support the comments made on behalf of us all by Tanzania, which holds the presidency of the Group of 77. Burkina Faso, together with other Member States, has asked for consideration of the need to review resolution 2758 (XXVI), which excludes from the United Nations the Republic of China on Taiwan. In doing so, Burkina Faso has no intention of violating the rights of another Member State. It merely asks that, given the new context, the reality of the Republic of China be acknowledged. This reality is demonstrated by the many and various relations that the Republic of China has in one form or another with most States. A review would do justice to the 21.5 million inhabitants while work goes on to resolve the matter by the reunification desired by both sides. While we continue to call for respect for human rights and respect for freedoms, there is still concern that it has not yet been possible to implement a position that the General Assembly has affirmed and reaffirmed, year after year. The principle of freedom of trade is overtly being violated, and Cuba, a Member State, is the victim. Burkina Faso believes that the international community must continue its efforts to convince all the parties concerned that since the embargo and obstacles to free trade have not yet resolved the dispute, new constructive paths must be explored. Similarly, along with the current Chairman of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), Burkina Faso affirms the need to find a solution to the dispute between Libya, the United States and the United Kingdom with regard to the Lockerbie tragedy. As well as the sufferings of the families of those who perished, many other people are continuing to suffer from the sanctions imposed against Libya. The Organization of African Unity has always expressed its concern at the unremitting sanctions imposed on Libya and their humanitarian consequences for its people, and has advocated a fair trial of the suspects pursuant to accepted principles of justice and international law. With the OAU, Burkina Faso hopes that the Security Council will give due attention to the proposal made jointly by the Organization of African Unity and the League of Arab States with a view to finding a just and equitable solution to the crisis. Speaking of the Security Council, a permanent member of the Council used the formula that it is far better to support a proposal for change backed by a large majority than to support a status quo that enjoys the support of almost no one. Such reform is now a necessity with regard to which Africa has developed a common position. Africa, which was absent in 1945, intends to gain recognition for its right to a place in the Security Council, in which most of the matters dealt with are African. Two permanent seats and some non-permanent seats would represent the beginning of justice for a continent which, along with Latin America, has no permanent representation. Burkina Faso believes that the enlargement of the Security Council, while including Japan and Germany, must necessarily provide equitable representation for Africa, Asia and Latin America. In addition to the Council’s composition, its functioning must also be reviewed. The future Security Council must no longer be a body that behaves all too often like a club for the privileged; rather, it must behave like an institution imbued with the highest responsibilities and aspirations for the benefit of all, without discrimination. Without that understanding, reform will be futile. At the fifty-first session, I concluded by saying: 24 “We are now seeing that the State is surrendering control over certain elements of its sovereignty. Everywhere, structures and organizations with varying degrees of legality are transcending States and establishing transnational networks and relations. It is therefore imperative that we keep pace with these trends and adapt now and in the future our special instrument, our common instrument: the United Nations at the service of peoples. Political will is what will make the difference.” [Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-first Session, Plenary Meetings, 20th meeting, p. 24] Earlier today, speaking of the globalization of the economy, I also mentioned the globalization of threats. I had in mind poverty, environmental deterioration, terrorism, drug trafficking, pandemics and, in general, the great disasters caused by man or by nature. The United Nations is in this regard an irreplaceable and invaluable tool. We thank and most warmly commend our brother Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General, who, in the space of nine months, has produced proposals designed to keep us all in step with the times and future challenges. In our quest for peace, security, progress, prosperity and justice, the Secretary-General is proposing that we define and redefine the instrument of our solidarity and our common condition. Burkina Faso will join wholeheartedly in this exercise and will support any movement that can lead us to development, which is one of the cardinal points of our quest and a platform on which all of the United Nations essential missions can come together: the maintenance of international peace and security, the promotion of justice and international law, the strengthening of cooperation for development, the protection of human rights and humanitarian assistance. While we welcome and applaud the generous contribution a wealthy individual has made to the United Nations, we must also remind all States that their contributions are a fulfilment of solemn and voluntary commitments. Contributions to the budget must be made in full, on time and without conditions. This is also part of the needed reform. The developments we are witnessing are profoundly contradictory. The future is marked by pairs of opposites — integration and disintegration; stability and instability; wealth and poverty; health and incurable disease; the opening and closing of borders; democracies and dictatorships; inter alia. They, it is said, are the very stuff of life. The pendulum swings from optimism to pessimism and then back again. To stop it as it swings towards optimism, we will need, as never before, to see to it that the international community can find and cultivate the virtues of inclusion and justice, for otherwise we will see develop before our eyes, to an increasing degree, a world of cruel and pitiless violence. The United Nations is our chance for a world of hope, justice, peace and progress. Let us seize this chance. ﻿It is with great pleasure that my delegation extends to you, Sir, its sincere congratulations on your unanimous election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its current session. My delegation also wishes to take this opportunity to express its deepest appreciation to your predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia, for his exceptional leadership and creative energies during the past year. I also wish to congratulate the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the new dynamism which he has brought to the Organization since he took office last January. This fifty-second session of the General Assembly takes place against the backdrop of transition and transformation in the world. The euphoria that came in the wake of the end of the cold war has given way to a sense of realism about the new, and no less formidable, challenges that confront us all in this era of globalization. The changes, led by technology and the globalization of business and information, seem endless and increasingly complex. Governments, meanwhile, face the daunting task of constantly trying to discern and adjust to the new order of international relations. For all the changes, some legacies of the cold war are still very much with us. Nothing brings home this reality more than the unfortunate events unfolding in Cambodia. While the situation in Cambodia that confronts us today is very different from the one we faced before the signing of the Paris Peace Accord, finding a solution is no less difficult. How can we deal with a conflict which is basically internal in character, particularly when our ability to influence events has become limited and we are overcome with the fatigue born of déjà vu? Clearly, we cannot turn our backs on Cambodia. But the reality is that we in Thailand and in the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), as well as the entire international community, can only be supportive to the extent that the Cambodians themselves are willing to give peace a chance. The situation in Cambodia reflects a peculiar aspect of this brave new age we are entering. Even as the world is being transformed by sweeping global trends, some problems are so deep-rooted that they resist even the best efforts of the international community. The United Nations, no stranger itself to intractable conflicts, will continue to be one of our best hopes for resolving such situations. While tending to such traditional challenges, the United Nations must also address the many complex new challenges brought on by the process of globalization. Indeed, globalization has come to mean different things to different people. To many, it holds out the promise of an unprecedented era of progress and prosperity. To its proponents, globalization has unleashed the forces of creativity and productivity in the world economy. 12 Globalization has been heralded for having spread the ideas and values of democracy and freedom worldwide. On the other hand, there are those who contend that globalization has become an all-embracing pretext for the imposition of certain sets of ideas and values. They see globalization as leading to a monopoly of economic power in the hands of a ruthless few whose sole allegiance is to the workings of market forces, while the vast majority of humanity is increasingly marginalized. The reality most likely lies somewhere between these two extreme views. The fact of the matter is that we must all develop the capacity to cope with the effects of globalization, both positive and negative. Even the more successful developing countries have not escaped the tremendous turmoil that integration into the global market can bring on, as evidenced by the currency crisis that Thailand and many other countries in South-East Asia are going through. Thailand’s recent experience suggests that to thrive under economic globalization, developing countries have to fully understand how market forces work and to adapt themselves accordingly. Thailand has learned that financial liberalization requires a high degree of discipline from both the public and private sectors. Also crucial is the need to be vigilant in improving prudential regulations. Moreover, a more comprehensive macroeconomic analysis is needed in order to improve the monitoring of current economic conditions. But Thailand’s basic strengths remain. Our economic fundamentals are still underscored by a remarkably high savings rate, relatively low inflation and a strong tradition of market-oriented policy framework. We are firm in our commitment to free and open markets. We are also active in promoting regional cooperation and economic liberalization through such frameworks as the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) Free Trade Area, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council and various subregional development schemes. Moreover, we are firm in our determination to achieve good governance and greater democracy. This past Saturday, the Thai Parliament approved the new draft Constitution, which emphasizes transparency, accountability and the role of public participation. Our political reform goes hand in hand with our economic reform. We realize that we can no longer put off economic restructuring if we are to get back on track quickly. We are therefore seriously implementing the conditions of the International Monetary Fund rescue package. We are also working with the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank to restructure our financial system, enhance our export competitiveness and return the economy to its long-term sustainable growth through necessary reforms of the civil service, privatization, industrial restructuring and the upgrading of the quality of our workforce, our technology and our infrastructure. I prefer to think of this crisis as a blessing in disguise. While we have done many things right in the past — including progressive industrialization and liberalization of international trade and investment — with the benefit of hindsight, the macroeconomic capability to cope with an increasingly open capital market was inadequate. Globalization of business and finance compels us to become more competitive through greater openness and transparency. Our economy is too deeply integrated into the international economic system to do anything less. We cannot fight the market; what we must do is ensure that the market works efficiently and equitably. At the same time, Thailand’s experience also shows that the United Nations has an important role to play in coordinating macroeconomic policy at the global level. Closer cooperation and coordination is needed between the United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions, the World Trade Organization and major industrial countries to provide integrated support for the enhancement of capacity-building in those countries whose economies are still weak. Globalization of course has its winners and losers. The rules of the game should therefore take into account both the weaknesses and strengths of all countries concerned. As a universal and multi-purpose Organization, the United Nations is the only institution in the world capable of forging a global partnership among States, big and small, rich and poor, powerful and weak. No single State or region can go it alone. This is why Thailand is committed to supporting the United Nations. This is why Thailand welcomes the reform-action initiatives and proposals recently put forward by the Secretary-General. I hope that these measures will enable the United Nations to carry out its responsibilities with increased efficiency and effectiveness. I wish the Secretary-General well on the further implementation of these proposals. Thailand attaches great importance to the strengthening of the role of the United Nations in 13 promoting international cooperation for economic and social development. We are pleased that in his reform proposals Secretary-General Kofi Annan argued that the promotion of sustainable development should be the central priority of United Nations activities. While the reform plan proposed by the Secretary-General requires more thorough consideration, Thailand can support his proposal of designating the United Nations Development Group — comprising the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Children’s Fund and the United Nations Population Fund — to supersede the sectoral group of development operations. We hope that the United Nations Development Group will facilitate consolidation and cooperation among United Nations agencies without compromising their identities, so that they can respond more effectively to the needs of developing countries. Thailand also welcomes the creation of a development dividend by shifting resources from administration to development activities. According to the reform plan, the administrative costs will be reduced by one third, the workforce will be reduced by 1,000 posts and the paperwork will be cut by 30 per cent. However, downsizing should not be an end in itself. The central element of the reform should concentrate on how to manage funds and implement programmes so as to achieve equitable development, which is our common goal. Another important point in the Secretary-General’s reform plan is the proposal to mobilize more resources for United Nations operational activities. Thailand sees the United Nations as the main forum for the creation of an equal and workable partnership between developed and developing countries — a partnership that should be responsive to the needs and aspirations of the developing world. The steady decline in voluntary contributions to core resources has inhibited the capacity of United Nations funds and programmes to play the roles assigned to them. In this regard, we support the Secretary-General’s proposal on innovative means of mobilizing new financial resources for development. The private sector is potentially an important source of financial support, as demonstrated by the proposed donation of $l billion by Mr. Ted Turner. However, the funds from the private sector should be additional to, and must not replace, official development assistance. The restructuring of the Security Council is also a vital part of United Nations reform. Despite the end of the cold war, the anachronistic yet so powerful veto power still exists in this supposedly more democratized institution. It is heartening, however, to note that the issue has been extensively debated. Thailand and its ASEAN partners, as well as the Non-Aligned Movement, believe that this veto power should be curtailed with a view to its eventual elimination. The Security Council itself should be expanded, taking into account the increase in United Nations membership to enhance its democratic and representative nature, while at the same time paying due regard to its efficiency and effectiveness. But without the firm commitment of Member States, all these reform efforts would come to nothing. Member States have the obligation under the Charter to bear the expenses of the Organization by paying their assessed contributions in full on time and without conditions. Thailand has always taken its financial obligation seriously and has made every effort to fulfil it. For 1997 Thailand is among the 28 countries which paid their contributions to the regular budget in full and on time. Thailand believes that one of the main tasks of the United Nations is to set standards in international law, and in recent years there has been an encouraging trend towards efforts to advance the cause of international law through the creation of legal norms and instruments. What these norms and instruments symbolize is the desire of peoples to live in a more orderly world. Thailand will continue to support and participate actively in efforts to establish an international criminal court, as well as in the elaboration of new legal instruments to combat terrorism. In December of this year, Thailand hopes to be one of the signatories of the Ottawa treaty banning all anti-personnel landmines. We believe that there is no greater crime than maiming or killing innocent civilians. It is high time that we put an end to this. At the same time, greater efforts and resources should be devoted to removing and destroying these landmines. As a signatory of the South-East Asia Nuclear- Weapon-Free Zone Treaty, which was concluded in Bangkok during the ASEAN summit in 1995, Thailand would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Governments of Central Asia for their initiative to establish a Central Asia nuclear-weapon-free zone. Their commendable effort adds to the strong evidence that the peoples of the world are no longer tolerant of nuclear weapons. At present, more than 100 United Nations Member States are signatories of nuclear-weapon-free zone treaties in their respective regions, treaties which now cover the greater part of the world, including Latin America and the Caribbean, the South Pacific, Africa, South-East Asia and, soon, Central Asia. What we are witnessing here is a new partnership, a partnership among 14 the peoples of the world who dread nuclear arsenals and wish to eliminate these hazardous weapons of mass destruction from the face of the earth. The international environment in which we live is evolving rapidly. During the past year, there have been many encouraging developments. But we also find ourselves confronted with new and increasingly complex challenges. In order to overcome these challenges, the United Nations as an Organization needs vision and inventiveness. But, more importantly, its Members need to speak with one voice on issues which confront mankind. If we are to succeed in doing this, a global partnership needs to be forged, be it in the area of politics, economic and social development, environmental protection or humanitarian assistance. Sooner rather than later, we should all realize that, in this globalized world, our destinies are linked together much more closely than we like to believe. The time to forge this partnership is now. The place to begin the process is here, at the United Nations.  ﻿Mr. President, it is my pleasure to congratulate you on your election, to share the confidence expressed in your leadership, and to pledge the cooperation of the Barbados delegation in the work of the fifty-second session of the General Assembly. I also wish to convey our deep appreciation to His Excellency Ambassador Razali Ismail for his outstanding stewardship of the fifty-first session. My delegation welcomed the firm management and dispatch of the General Assembly agenda which characterized his tenure as President. We would wish that this businesslike approach reflect the new direction of a reformed United Nations, more efficient and more effective, to face the challenge of rapid global change. The Assembly meets again for its review of the global political scene against a background of recurring strife and conflict in many parts of the world. The increasing demands on the resources of the Organization continue to hamper implementation of its priority mission in the post- cold-war world, namely, promoting sustainable development and, in particular, the elimination of absolute poverty. My delegation believes that the United Nations must remain the conscience of the international community in the fight against poverty and misery, which afflict so many of the world’s people. Yet we face the stark reality that without peace, the fruits of development and the goals of economic and social justice will remain for them a distant dream. The numerous conflicts, both old and new, which darken the global political scene underline the need for a new urgency in the quest for peace, so wherever conflict exists we call on all concerned parties to redouble their efforts towards reconciliation and to accelerate the conditions for stability and economic and social progress for their people. But, as we look to the new millennium, we believe that prospects for an era of lasting peace must extend beyond traditional responses to conflict after they have erupted. The promotion of a “Culture of Peace”, launched by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), holds considerable promise. It focuses greater attention on prevention and addresses the cause of conflict at its roots. We share the view of UNESCO that this challenge is broad and far-reaching and would require priority commitment by the United Nations system, non-governmental organizations, and civil society. Institutional reform and restructuring at both the national and multilateral levels in response to rapid global change is an imperative, not an option. Barbados strongly supports the United Nations reform process, and has followed with deep interest the progress of the various Working Groups. The Working Group on an Agenda for Development has completed its task. We now have a comprehensive document which embodies the main development priorities contained in the various programmes of action. But if the Agenda is to be implemented, it must claim wide ownership, not only among the organs and specialized agencies of the United Nations system, but among the operational Ministries of Governments as well — in particular, Ministries of Finance. Here we remain concerned that the critical question of the future 11 financing of development has not been resolved. This has heightened uncertainty about the international commitment to development cooperation, through which the United Nations system has played such an important supportive role in developing countries. Negotiations taking place in the Working Group on reform of the Security Council should facilitate, not limit, opportunities for membership of developing countries, and reflect the altered structure of the Organization since 1965. Barbados attaches particular importance to the principle of openness and transparency in the work of the Council and welcomes the steps already taken in this direction through regular briefings and monthly assessments by Council Presidents. Difficult negotiations remain on key issues, including the size of the Council, the nature of its enlargement and the use of the veto. We must now step up consultations, drawing on the useful proposals submitted by Member States and the Co-Chairmen of the Group. We hope such negotiations can be conducted in a timely and open manner, in a spirit of compromise, and to the general satisfaction of all. The report on the strengthening of the United Nations system contains many important recommendations for improving the role and functioning of the General Assembly and the accountability and efficiency of the Secretariat. Some may argue that these proposals do not go far enough. In the view of my delegation, however, they constitute a firm basis on which the effectiveness of these organs can be built. We look forward to their implementation. My delegation remains deeply concerned about the prolonged financial crisis facing the Organization and the serious implications for its long-term viability. We believe that the United Nations is at the crossroads. Payment of assessed contributions in full, on time and without conditions is a hallowed treaty obligation of Member States. Unilateral conditions, however convenient, constitute a dangerous precedent which could hobble the United Nations and the reform process for many years to come. We urge the Working Group concerned to step up its efforts to put the Organization on a more secure financial footing. Against this background of United Nations system reform, we welcome the second phase of the Secretary- General’s reform programme “Renewing the United Nations: A Programme for Reform”. It contains many far- reaching proposals designed to streamline the organizational and management structure of the United Nations and to improve its overall effectiveness. My delegation will participate actively in the relevant forum which will consider this report, and seek greater clarification and specificity on a number of key recommendations. In principle, however, we believe that as chief executive officer, accountable to Member States for the Organization’s performance, the Secretary-General must be able to implement those management actions within his immediate authority. At the same time, we would caution that reform should not be driven by staff reduction targets, nor predetermined by budgetary constraints. We believe reform should be guided by the mandated objectives and priorities set by Member States, as reflected in the various programmes of action of the global conferences, and the financial and human resources required to implement them. The scientific achievements of this century have been truly spectacular. We have visited the Moon and lived in outer space for months. We have made great advances in medicine and genetic engineering, in information technology, in high-speed mass transport and in food production, to mention only a few. Yet so much remains to be done. Abject poverty, disease, illiteracy and ill-health still afflict far too many fellow inhabitants of this planet as we approach the new millennium. This Organization has done much to alleviate suffering. But it can continue to do so, and do so more effectively, only if Member States, according to their capacities, give unselfishly of the financial and technical resources necessary for the execution of its social programmes. In Barbados, our own national development programmes underscore the Government’s assignment of highest priority to the social sectors, which at present account for almost 40 per cent of total Government expenditure. Through sustained economic growth, supplemented by an effective social safety net, the Government aims to spread the benefits of development to all its people. Among new major programmes are Edu tech 2000, a five-year education-sector programme aimed at enhancing the use of information technology by students and teachers, and the Youth Entrepreneurship Scheme, known as YES, which provides training, business counselling, mentorship and access to finance for young entrepreneurs. 12 While our strong commitment to social policy has paid rich dividends, as illustrated by the successive high rankings of Barbados in the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) human development index, emerging problems largely associated with poverty, particularly among youth, are of critical concern. The Government has therefore launched a major initiative in collaboration with UNDP to elaborate a plan of action for poverty alleviation including the feasibility of a social-investment funding scheme. It will target pockets of poverty throughout the country and provide funding for programmes submitted by local non-governmental organizations and community groups, focusing on skills acquisition and community empowerment. Through related policies, the Government is implementing measures to promote gender parity and the full integration of women and youth in the development process. Barbados enjoys a robust democracy and so recognizes the increasing influence of civil society in shaping national policy. The Government has taken a number of actions to foster and to strengthen this participatory process, including the establishment of National Commissions on Social Justice and on Reform of the Constitution. This underscores the highest priority we give to social justice and democracy and the importance we attach to keeping these fundamental rights under periodic review. Barbados participated actively within the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) during the nineteenth special session of the General Assembly, which reviewed the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development. We consider the Rio Conference to be one of the great achievements of the United Nations. It underscored the integration of environment and development policies through a comprehensive programme of action — Agenda 21 — which speaks to the very survival of our planet. More particularly, it called the attention of the international community to the special vulnerabilities of small island developing States through the follow-up Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of the Small Island Developing States, and the Barbados Programme of Action which it adopted. Barbados shared with other developing countries the expectation that the special session would rekindle the spirit of Rio and reaffirm the commitments made for the financing of sustainable development. The special session clearly fell short of these expectations. Since Rio, progress has been made in enacting international law and conventions in the areas of biodiversity, the seas, climate change and desertification, and in implementing environmental policies at the national level. But the failure of donors to honour commitments on finance and technology was clearly the most crucial factor limiting further implementation of Agenda 21. We welcome, however, the decision to hold a two- day special session to review the Barbados Programme of Action in 1999. It is our hope that this review will reinforce the long-term viability of this Programme and underscore the vital role small island developing States play as a laboratory for the study of environmental change in the interest of all countries. While recognizing that, through self-help, small island developing States must do more to revitalize the Barbados Programme, we urge the international community to provide greater financial support to strengthen its implementation, especially its information network and technical assistance components. The upcoming Caribbean ministerial meeting on the plan of action, scheduled to be held in Barbados in November, will give strategic direction to our preparatory work over the next several months. I wish to turn briefly to specific developments of major concern to the Caribbean region. The vulnerability of our region, both environmental and economic, is a daily reality. On the emerald isle of Montserrat, nature has dealt a most cruel blow. There the people face not just the effects of a natural calamity, but the distinct possibility that their island home and way of life could be obliterated. The eruption of the Lange Soufriere Hills Volcano shows no signs of abating. Barbados has joined its Caribbean Community (CARICOM) partners in providing financial and material assistance to the people of our sister isle in this time of crisis. We urge the international community to come to the assistance of this beleaguered island. Man-made disasters can be no less cruel. The recent decision of the World Trade Organization panel on the banana question has threatened the very lifeline of the exporting countries of the region. We know that diversification is the long-term answer. But such economic transformation cannot be achieved overnight or without consistent support from the international community. Barbados joins affected countries in appealing for such support. Last June Barbados and the other CARICOM States welcomed Haiti as the fourteenth member of our Community. Haiti’s future is now linked to CARICOM’s future. 13 In supporting Haiti during its critical hour, CARICOM countries cautioned then, and we do so again now, that the task ahead would be long and difficult and that progress would be uneven, and urged the international community to stay the course with Haiti. We are therefore grateful not just to the Security Council for agreeing to a United Nations Transition Mission in Haiti whose mandate extends to 30 November 1997, but also to the Friends of the Secretary-General for Haiti, and to other concerned delegations that made this compromise possible. This extension will further professionalize the National Police force and enhance its capacity to secure the stability on which democracy and development can flourish. In May 1997 Barbados had the honour to host the CARICOM/United States summit on partnership for prosperity and security in the Caribbean. It underlined our mutual economic and security interests and opened a new chapter in the CARICOM/United States partnership, consistent with the changing global economy. The summit adopted the Bridgetown Declaration of Principles. It will guide an ambitious action plan designed to promote sustainable development and foster democracy, peace, and economic and social progress in the region. Barbados considers the summit an important landmark in CARICOM/United States cooperation. We look forward to monitoring the action plan at annual meetings of CARICOM Foreign Ministers and the Secretary of State of the United States of America, starting early in 1998. We trust that this process of consultation will embrace the concerns of Caribbean countries over a number of critical issues, such as the adverse impact of recent immigration policy on the very fabric of Caribbean society. Barbados and the CARICOM States have been particularly concerned with the threat to democracy and society posed by drug trafficking, crime and violence, money laundering and corruption. Our efforts to rid the Caribbean of those scourges have centred on increased cooperation and information sharing and on the strengthening and training of our police and coastguard forces. We welcome the valuable support for these efforts by our bilateral partners as well as by the Regional Office for the Caribbean of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme. The special session of the General Assembly on the issue of drugs next year will provide a valuable opportunity to share our experiences and also to learn from those of others. Let me comment briefly on the phenomenon of globalization, which has reshaped the development landscape, with far-reaching implications for the Caribbean Community. The reordering and strengthening of CARICOM-United States cooperation are an integral part of our adaptation to this powerful impulse. Through the liberalization of trade, finance and services and the rapid expansion of telecommunications and information technology, developing countries have become a driving force in this process, although the level and pace of integration differ widely among countries. Barbados shares the anxiety of small developing States, which are highly vulnerable to marginalization in this fiercely competitive environment given our sparse natural and human-resource base and limited administrative and technical capacity. Globalization presents new opportunities for trade and investment — witness the performance of East Asian economies. But the gains have been largely reaped by the stronger countries, leaving the weak even more disadvantaged and the inequality between and within countries even more pronounced. It is for this reason that we urge the United Nations to play a greater advocacy role on behalf of vulnerable States in the policy dialogue on globalization. The CARICOM States recognize that we must strengthen our technical capacity to negotiate effectively our integration into the global economy. Accordingly, regional negotiating machinery has been established to manage these crucial negotiations, which will determine our future relations with major trading blocs. This fifty-second session of the General Assembly has before it many critical issues. It must guide the reform process, which, in effect, will determine the very future of the Organization. It must come to terms with the chronic and grave financial crisis that threatens the Organization’s integrity and viability. It must redouble its efforts to foster reconciliation and stability in the many strife-torn countries where millions of people remain trapped in poverty and deprivation. Barbados believes that this indispensable institution can meet these challenges. But it must expeditiously put its house in order so that it can intensify its efforts with regard to the priorities that define its unique mission of peace, development, democracy and social justice. Barbados pledges its full commitment and support. 14 ﻿First of all, allow me to subscribe to the statement delivered this morning by the Foreign Minister of Luxembourg, Mr. Jacques Poos, on behalf of the European Union. In particular, Sir, I wish to join him in his congratulations to you on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly. As the year 2000 draws closer, our feelings somehow make us ponder more keenly the achievements and misfortunes of the present century, and make us look ahead to the next one. As I do this, central to my thoughts is the United Nations, an institution created when I was an adolescent, at the end of a war whose horrors were just then coming to light. I remember having been elated at the time about the purposes and principles of the new Organization, and I remember how intrigued I was to see that, in a way, devastation and despair had given rise to the belief that a better world could yet be built, a world marked by peace, development and respect for human rights, notions I was just beginning to learn about. Soon enough, I came to realize that such a world would be rather longer in the making than the Charter had led me to hope; that old questions were giving way to new ones; that the United Nations was not a panacea for all the troubles of mankind; and, more to the point, that the United Nations could never be stronger than its Member States collectively willed it to be. Yet somehow my expectations remained, expectations which I shared with a growing audience around the globe, and which one generation was passing on to the next. Rightly or wrongly, nations and individuals, Governments, civil society and the public at large: they all have expectations about what the United Nations can do for them, and about how it might change their lives and their destiny for the better. The question then is not so much whether the United Nations can meet all of those expectations. For it cannot, and it probably should not even try. The United Nations has neither the mandate, nor the resources, nor the power to be the world’s keeper. The question is rather how we can exploit the strong points of the Charter, how we can make the United Nations play a role that only the United Nations can play, and how we can better equip the Organization to do more by doing what it does better. With that in mind, I wish to highlight three matters this afternoon: the fitness of the Organization; the potential of the United Nations to manage crises in the wider context of development; and the Organization’s action in the field of human rights. Part of the reason why the United Nations has problems in meeting expectations is what it has turned into over the past 30 years: an amazing structure of boards and committees populated by a growing membership and assisted by an army of civil servants. For that reason alone, the Organization has lost credibility. Efforts to streamline and revitalize the Organization are therefore long overdue. United Nations reform is a must. The proposals put forward by the Secretary-General are an important first step in that process, as the Foreign Minister of Luxembourg, Mr. Poos, said this morning, a process that will have to incorporate more ambitious ideas as it unfolds. The Kingdom of the Netherlands supports the Secretary-General in his reform drive, we applaud the fact that he has made reform his number-one agenda item, and we welcome the reform package Mr. Kofi Annan has put in our care. But we should get on with it. The world cannot afford to wait. We are looking at an Organization that is far behind on its maintenance schedule. Yet over the past three years, the reform debate has inched forward as if oblivious to the need to produce results. Fortunately, the Secretary-General has injected new momentum into the debate, and we should all welcome this. As we are about to engage in this “Reform Assembly”, as the Secretary-General has called it, we should be conscious of the underlying concerns that have surfaced in the reform debate from time to time. These concerns are real, and dismissing them would jeopardize a promising outcome for the present session. Indeed, various groups of nations have doubts about what other groups of nations are ultimately aiming for in this exercise. Developing countries have even expressed misgivings about the reform process as a whole. Some of them are clearly afraid that major Western Governments 15 are out to recast the United Nations as an institution that would run on the lowest possible budget and concentrate on peacekeeping, humanitarian aid and human rights. Another concern is that the development programme of this Organization — perhaps its single most important achievement over the past 30 years — might actually suffer as a result of reform. Understandably, many nations see the decline in recent years of official aid levels as the writing on the wall. They are disheartened by the empty promises of Rio de Janeiro in 1992. Moreover, they are worried about the current financial crisis of the United Nations. And finally, a handful of nations describe the Secretary-General’s proposals as a “northern” package — one that caters mainly to the needs of the industrialized world. Instead, developing nations would wish to see the United Nations strengthened in what to them is perhaps its most critical field of action, a field of action that corresponds to one of the main purposes mentioned in the Charter: social and economic development. They rightly argue that if the United Nations membership wants to be serious about that objective, it needs to equip the Organization accordingly. And so, in their view, more resources should flow into the Organization. Before consenting to change anything, they are inclined to play it safe and to hold on to what is there. This line of thought, assuming I am reading it correctly, calls for comments. My first remark is that, clearly, the Secretary-General was well-advised in having most of his package focus on the economic and social sectors. This is indeed the area that commands the widest interest among the membership. If we look at the merits of the package, it seems fair to say that many industrialized nations might have wanted to see more ambitious and comprehensive proposals. Still, speaking for the Netherlands Government, I would argue that the present package of reform measures is well-directed, substantial and worthwhile. Evidently, the Secretary-General, on the basis of consultations which only he could undertake, has concluded that the contents of the package represent the maximum of what is achievable in the present state of play. And we should all accept that as a given. Furthermore, it is important to remember that reform might strengthen the development sector of the United Nations to the point where it can actually deliver better service with the resources that are presently available. This exercise is not about cutting costs. Yet a leaner and meaner Organization might give better value for the money. At the same time, we welcome the idea of a development dividend, as put forward by the Secretary-General. A stronger development sector may help make the United Nations a more attractive Organization not only to recipients, but to donor countries as well. Voluntary contributions should not come only from the same small group of traditional donors year after year. For a long time now, the Netherlands has been among the top contributors to the United Nations system, and we intend to remain so. We appreciate the spectacular gesture by Mr. Ted Turner. But donor contributions should also come from those nations that fall far below the 0.7 per cent mark, as well as from newly industrialized countries in Asia and elsewhere. Finally, all Member States should become current and stay current on their financial obligations under the regular and peacekeeping budgets; and payments should be prompt, in full and certainly without conditions. All in all, the heart of the matter is not about core concepts and not about mindset; it is about trust. It is about feeling comfortable with the idea that among 185 Member States, a difference of views is inevitable, particularly when they are asked to discuss such a wide- ranging matter as the future of this Organization. We have arrived at a crossroads where we face a critical choice. This is a moment when we have to rise above the level of squabbling over details in working groups. No doubt, we all have a point to raise, a question to ask and a change to make. But that avenue would lead us nowhere, for soon enough the package would fall apart. Now is the time to start trusting each other. This is a time for vision and political courage. We, as statesmen, should be ready to accept our responsibility in this regard, to join forces and to forge a breakthrough. We should all rise to the occasion and accept the package of the Secretary-General as it is before us now and work out the details and implementation later. Endorsement in general terms needs to be expressed before we all adjourn next December. Without such endorsement, the momentum in the reform process will be lost. We, the Member States of the United Nations, pledged ourselves, in the words of the Charter: “to take effective collective measures for the prevention and removal of threats to the peace”. 16 Next to the United Nations development effort, peacekeeping and peace-building are perhaps the most visible part of what the United Nations does — an impression refreshed by Cable News Network (CNN) almost daily. More importantly, those who are on the run, who are afraid for their lives, who watch their homesteads invaded, who are occupied and repressed, who look starvation and genocide in the face — they have expectations of the United Nations. They expect the Organization to bail them out. We need to improve the capacity of the United Nations to deal with crises, be they military, political or humanitarian ones, whether man-made or not. There is considerable room for improvement here, as illustrated by the situations in Bosnia, Somalia, Rwanda and Zaire. As we speak, innocent blood is flowing in many places around the world. Yet all too often the United Nations remains impotent. We cannot allow this to continue. Here again lies a major area where reform is indispensable, and the Secretary-General has duly underlined this. A number of Member States, including the Kingdom of the Netherlands, have been trying to develop the concept of a standby high-readiness brigade within the framework of the United Nations standby agreements. They have been making modest progress over the last three years. A rapidly deployable headquarters is now being established. Tomorrow a small group of nations will informally deliberate on how to promote further steps. Several other initiatives are under way, including regional ones. Given the complexities, this is going to be an incremental process, but one where we cannot afford to let up. The real test is where to position peacekeeping in the wider context of the overall concerns of the United Nations. Our agenda should be wider and should include conflict prevention and peace-building. The difficulty we need to address here is how to integrate different policy instruments — political, military, relief, rehabilitation and social and economic development — into one comprehensive framework. Crises require a coherent and effective international response, a response that should integrate preventive diplomacy, political mediation and humanitarian relief, but also social action, economic alternatives and cultural communication. In sum: development. Of course, prevention is the key. The United Nations can be much more effective when we invest in prevention. Diplomacy, economic sanctions, arms embargoes and political pressure will reduce risk and costs as compared to military intervention in an escalated conflict. We could avoid the loss of life and escape generalized human misery. As a result of timely prevention, we could also avoid the immense costs for rehabilitation, resettlement and reconstruction that arise after violence is over. Military intervention, under United Nations auspices, for humanitarian purposes may be necessary in certain conflict situations. But it should always be a means of last resort. Intervention implies that prevention has failed. The link between development on the one hand and peace and security on the other is a tenuous one in the United Nations system. Yet experience has proved that making the link is imperative. We need to find the best combination of conflict management, humanitarian assistance and social and economic programmes to pave the way for sustainable development and for sustainable peace. In San Francisco we promised to promote and encourage “respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms for all”. It is a pledge we will have to renew again and again, perhaps indefinitely. Yet such a pledge may not degenerate into lipservice. Commitments must be turned into reality; obligations must be implemented. We cannot let our guard down as we face reports on violations of human rights. Torture is still being practised on a wide scale. People continue to disappear. Arrest and detention without cause take place routinely. And freedom of the press is non-existent in too many countries. Still, we recognize that human rights are in better shape worldwide than they were 10 years ago, and certainly 50 years ago. Totalitarian regimes have all but disappeared; democracy is on the rise. Also, there is more interest than ever before in the triangle of democracy, good governance and human rights. Today, human rights are well established as an important objective in their own right and a major field of activity for the United Nations. But, perhaps more important, human rights have become a leitmotif in a wide variety of other areas of United Nations policy, from sustainable development to population, from trade to humanitarian aid, and from peacekeeping to human settlements. That human rights is a “cross-cutting” issue is evident from the reform proposals of the Secretary- 17 General and from the way he has revised the top management structure in the Secretariat — both of which we welcome warmly. Expectations on what the United Nations can achieve in the field of human rights have run high, among victims of human-rights violations, among mothers of the disappeared, among grass-roots groups, and among non-governmental organizations. Then again, there are Governments that expect the United Nations to stay out of their precincts entirely: Governments that accept the universality of human rights, but only as a debating point; Governments that accept the United Nations actions against human rights-violations, but only at a theoretical level and not when it concerns them. All in all, the instruments the United Nations can apply have become the core of an extensive machinery that in many cases has worked strikingly well. Examples are numerous and expanding. I refer to such diverse methods as international dialogue, the integration of human rights activities into cooperation arrangements, the work of human rights field offices, human rights education and strengthening regional supervisory machinery. More recently, a new High Commissioner for Human Rights took up her position. If this is indeed the age of human rights, as the Secretary-General says, then Mrs. Mary Robinson will be one of its key personalities. We wish her courage and wisdom in her new assignment, and she can be sure of our commitment. One major platform in the realization of human rights and the international administration of justice is soon to take its definitive shape. Next summer, a diplomatic conference will convene in Rome — we should all be grateful to the Italian Government for hosting it — that will, hopefully, adopt a convention establishing an international criminal court. Once established, the court will be the natural counterpart to the International Court of Justice. My Government is looking forward with anticipation to this new offspring in the international legal order, and I take pride in announcing that my country is offering to house the seat of the court, in the city of The Hague. The fitness of the United Nations as an Organization, its capacity to manage crises in the wider context of development, and its action in the field of human rights are areas of ongoing concern to all Member States. This Assembly will continue to address them, either on their own merits or in the context of United Nations reform. The United Nations is expected to perform in these areas and to produce results. Yet there is only one way this is going to happen: if all of us join forces, join forces to make the United Nations a viable and credible institution, join forces to make it a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations in the attainment of these common ends. For only then will we keep the promise of San Francisco.  ﻿First of all, Sir, allow me to congratulate you on your election as President of the fifty-second session of the General Assembly of the United Nations and to wish you success in the execution of that responsible and lofty function. I am especially pleased that the General Assembly has elected to this very responsible function a very competent representative from Ukraine, a friendly country with which the Republic of Macedonia is developing successful cooperation. The Republic of Macedonia attaches great importance to the fifty-second session of the General Assembly. On the threshold of the twenty-first century, the interdependence of peace and global development is a standard that must be respected. It is dangerous for some to develop while others continuously regress. This trend can only be a source of conflicts, of confrontation of interests, even of wars. Consequently, there is no alternative to the strengthening of peace through the promotion of international cooperation, and our Organization faces the serious responsibility of being even more efficient and more focused on essential issues. This is the direction that the Macedonian delegation will also pursue. I applaud the fact that the Organization is headed by Mr. Kofi Annan, a very competent reformer who believes in the irreplaceable role of the United Nations as a guarantor of international peace and security. His programme for United Nations reform, as contained in his report of July of this year, is one of the most topical issues before the Organization. We believe that the essential changes that have been proposed take into account the basic consideration that the United Nations 4 remain a democratic institution representing the interests of all Members. We too, much like the Secretary-General, wish the Organization to be a promoter of new changes, a true centre where countries can harmonize their activities in building a better world. Whether the United Nations will truly become such an organization will depend on all of us, and the Republic of Macedonia will continue to make its contribution to that end. In that context, the emerging priorities are as follows: a stronger General Assembly, reform of United Nations organs, and above all of the Security Council, a reduction in the number of ad hoc bodies, greater transparency of operations, and maximum control over the budget of the Organization, financial spending and contributions. Allow me to address some of the priority tasks that the United Nations will have to face in the coming period, tasks which should not be placed in the background because of the reform of the United Nations. Indeed, that reform must be in the service of a more efficient resolution of the bitter issues that burden the international community. The credibility of the United Nations will to a large measure depend on this, for in the coming period much energy will have to be devoted to ending existing crises and conflicts and to preventing the eruption of new ones. The United Nations has become renowned for its successful peacekeeping operations. I should like to use this opportunity to express my highest appraisal of the presence of the United Nations Preventive Deployment Force (UNPREDEP) in the Republic of Macedonia, as well as my appreciation to all the participants in that operation, which has helped prevent a spillover of the conflict from some parts of the former Yugoslavia to my country. With regard to the crisis in Albania, my country has constantly felt the need for the effective presence of the United Nations peacekeeping forces. The cooperation between the Macedonian Government and UNPREDEP, one of the most successful preventive operations in the history of the United Nations, is truly excellent. My pleasure is increased by the reports of the Secretary-General that contain the same assessments. The mission of UNPREDEP is ongoing. We believe that it should continue, for the presence of peacekeepers in the Republic of Macedonia serves not only as a dam preventing the existing crisis points in the Balkans from overflowing, but also as an actor working for peace, security and stability in the country’s southern regions. In that context, the Republic of Macedonia has welcomed and follows closely the implementation of the Dayton Accord. It is a matter of principle that the indicted war criminals be brought to justice. The international community, epitomized in the United Nations, must not allow the Dayton Accord to fail. Hence, it is imperative to give impetus to further engagement by the Organization, in coordination with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the European Union, in sustaining the peace process. A particularly important part of that effort, I would emphasize, is the normalization of relations between the Balkan countries, on the basis of good-neighbourliness and mutual respect. Within its capacities, the Republic of Macedonia has made and will continue to make the maximum contribution to that effect. The agenda of this session of the Assembly also includes the development of good-neighbourly relations between Balkan countries, in accordance with resolution 50/80, adopted following our proposal at the fiftieth session of the General Assembly, and the election of new members of the Security Council for the term from 1998 to 1999. Allow me to address these issues briefly. Throughout the twentieth century, the Balkans has remained a concern for the international community due to the many wars waged in this region. The Republic of Macedonia has unequivocally opted for peace there. In this context, we are engaged in an active policy of good- neighbourliness and mutual cooperation with all Balkan countries. This can also be seen through resolutions 48/84 and 50/80 B proposed by the Republic of Macedonia and sponsored by many Balkan countries — but not just Balkan countries — and adopted with the vast support and consensus of the General Assembly. The Republic of Macedonia is committed to respecting the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Balkan States and the inviolability of international frontiers, and to advancing mutual cooperation in all spheres. We are particularly committed to the institutionalized and functional integration of the Balkans in the European integration processes. During this session, our delegation will submit a draft resolution for the development of good- neighbourly relations in the Balkans. I hope that the General Assembly will adopt it by consensus. As long ago as 1994, my country, the Republic of Macedonia, submitted its candidacy as a non-permanent member of the Security Council from the Eastern European group of countries, for the term from 1998 to 1999. I also announced our candidacy during my address to the Assembly last year. I am pleased that many United Nations Members have expressed great understanding of our motives and arguments, and have supported the need 5 for one Balkan country to be elected as a member of the Security Council. We very much appreciate the support for and confidence in our candidacy that we expect to receive from the Assembly. We would like to make our own contribution to the activities of the Security Council and the United Nations as a whole by incorporating our own policy of peace and democracy into those activities on the issues which fall within those organs' areas of responsibility. I would like to assure the Assembly that our delegation on the Security Council will act in full accordance with the Charter of the United Nations. In the period that lies ahead, United Nations bodies will continue to deal with Balkan problems and the general Balkan situation. This is reality. For these reasons, it is quite logical that the Republic of Macedonia, as a Balkan country, be elected to this function. It will be a great honour for us to shoulder this responsibility, and, at the same time, a great obligation for which we have long been preparing. The processes of democratic transformation in many countries in the world will undoubtedly continue at the same pace in the twenty-first century. This trend will inevitably influence the character of overall and comprehensive international relations in global proportions. The United Nations and other organs within its system must inevitably take part in these changes. Only if the rules of international law are abided by and the real situation on the ground is respected can a better and more humane world be created and thus our trust in our Organization increased. I am confident that the reforms that have been announced, or rather their consistent implementation, will lead to an even greater affirmation of the United Nations and its commitment to combating policies of force and domination and to supporting peace, cooperation and the balanced development of all countries and peoples. In a word, we are confident that in this way the United Nations will be even more efficient in responding to the objectives and ideals of the Charter of the United Nations. ﻿At the outset, I would like to say how pleased we are to congratulate you, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency of the fifty-second session of the United Nations General Assembly. We are convinced that your great experience and wisdom will promote the success of this session. I can assure you of the cooperation of the delegation of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania in reaching the results to which we all aspire. I take this opportunity also to express our gratitude to and esteem for your predecessor, Mr. Razali Ismail, for the great efforts made and the positive results obtained during his term of office as President of the past session. 5 I should also like to express our appreciation to Mr. Kofi Annan, Secretary-General of the United Nations, for the tireless efforts he has made since his assumption to his high office to promote the universality of the United Nations and to strengthen its credibility and capacity to discharge its responsibilities despite a difficult international situation. In this context, we welcome the initiative taken by the Secretary-General in submitting an outline for reform, which includes a number of provisions that could improve the functioning of the Organization. An in-depth study of this outline will undoubtedly facilitate its adoption by all members of the international community. While the end of the cold war has created a favourable climate for the emergence of a new era of international dialogue and cooperation, the improvement of the economic conditions of developing countries remains an urgent need. Indeed, with the growing trend towards globalization and liberalization in international trade, the developing countries are facing a number of obstacles, including slower growth, falling export revenues, and a reduction in the volume of investments and in official development assistance. All of this may prevent these countries from becoming part of the global economy and further marginalize them if the international community does not mobilize swiftly to provide them with the aid they need to meet these challenges. The increase in the volume of debt is another obstacle to the economic and social development efforts undertaken by these countries for the benefit of their peoples. In this respect the 1996 report of the World Bank notes that the burden of debt in many of the least developed countries has reached such a level that it is virtually impossible for them to continue with their economic reforms, which are of crucial importance; and that this situation is exacerbated by the fact that in 1996 official development assistance, which can reduce the effect of indebtedness, fell to its lowest level in real terms in 23 years. International strategies do not seem to have succeeded adequately in easing the burden of debt in the developing countries, which is why more effective solutions, such as increasing official development assistance, must be found so that these countries’ development priorities can be financed. Despite the fragility of the international economic situation, progress has been made in various areas due to efforts by the United Nations to promote international cooperation and to define policies and strategies capable of meeting the economic, social and environmental challenges that confront the world today. For instance, several important international meetings and conferences have been organized during the past five years under the auspices of the United Nations, resulting in some decisions and undertakings relating to the main issues of development that seek to promote international cooperation and coordination for development. I am referring in particular to the World Summit for Children, held in New York; the Earth Summit, held in Rio de Janeiro; the World Conference on Human Rights, held in Vienna; the International Conference on Population and Development, held in Cairo; the World Summit for Social Development, held in Copenhagen; the Fourth World Conference on Women, held in Beijing; the World Food Summit, held in Rome; the second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II), held in Istanbul; and the nineteenth special session of the General Assembly, devoted to the overall review and appraisal of the implementation of Agenda 21, which took place in New York last June. These initiatives attest to the determination of the United Nations to take into account the concerns and interests of the international community with regard to a whole range of development issues. The United Nations should continue on this path and seek to ensure implementation of the decisions adopted. Under the enlightened guidance of its President, His Excellency Mr. Maaouya Ould Sid’Ahmed Taya, the Islamic Republic of Mauritania has completed the process of establishing constitutional institutions within the framework of a democratic process that began 11 years ago. This ensures that these institutions will be able to function normally within a multi-party system and a State based on the rule of law. My country is proud to state that we do not hold any political prisoners. Fundamental freedoms, such as freedom of expression and a multi-party system, as well as trade union freedoms, are guaranteed and enjoyed by 20 political parties and a large number of organizations and trades unions that can pursue their activities in complete freedom. Likewise, there are dozens of newspapers and magazines that reflect various political and intellectual sensibilities. 6 Furthermore, in keeping with the provisions of our Constitution, the two Houses of Parliament have been replenished, and for the second time presidential elections, set for 12 December this year, are being prepared in a climate of freedom, peace and stability. A global strategy that seeks to raise the level of our people’s economic and social development and to consolidate democracy has been implemented. This goes hand in hand with the democratic process and is in keeping with the following comments of the President of the Republic, His Excellency Mr. Maaouya Ould Sid’Ahmed Taya: “We are seeking to build a modern society capable of accompanying the world on its march forward and of assimilating scientific and technological information; a society aware of the challenges of our time and working to meet those challenges”. In this context, the promotion of women’s rights and the campaign against illiteracy figure prominently in our development programmes. A sustained effort is also being made to provide as many of our citizens as possible with access to education, jobs and health services, thereby guaranteeing them a better standard of living. The results obtained in this regard are satisfactory. Indeed, the enrolment rate in our schools has reached 86 per cent and health care coverage for our people has been significantly extended towards meeting the goal defined by the World Health Organization, which is health for all by the year 2000. Drinking water supply systems have been built in several regions, and the main cities of the country now have electricity. Within the framework of a huge programme to provide access to remote towns in the interior of the country, several new roads have been built, and a modern telecommunications system now covers the entire country. These important achievements attest to our firm desire to combat underdevelopment in all its forms, relying first on our own resources and then on the support of our development partners. I should like here to express my gratitude to all brotherly and friendly countries and international organizations and agencies, as well as to non-governmental organizations, for their support of my country’s efforts in this area. One of the positive features of international relations today, which has led to the strengthening of democracy and respect for human rights in several regions of the world, is the international community’s effort to consolidate fundamental principles such as transparency, the representative character of power, the primacy of law, and the independence of the judiciary. While we can be satisfied with the significant progress made in this area, we should not lose sight of the fact that democracy cannot be limited to the narrow confines of each individual country; it must extend to relations between nations. In this respect we attach particular importance to the efforts made by the Open- ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council. We also hope that these efforts will lead to greater transparency in the decision-making processes of the Security Council as well as to improved working methods. In a different area, we need to adopt a new form of preventive diplomacy that is capable of preventing conflicts and the human tragedies that result from them, such as those we have witnessed recently and those we see today and yet are unable to resolve. The Islamic Republic of Mauritania expresses its profound concern at the difficulties encountered in the peace process and at the negative developments in the region of the Middle East, which result from non- compliance with agreements concluded and commitments undertaken in accordance with the established timetable. My country believes that there can be no just and lasting peace in the Middle East unless Israel withdraws from all the occupied Palestinian territories, including Al-Quds, the Syrian Golan and southern Lebanon, and unless the Palestinian people regain their right to create an independent State on their territory. My country also calls for the taking of the steps necessary for the resumption of the peace negotiations among all the parties concerned. We are convinced that Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978) and the principle of “land for peace” remain the basis of a comprehensive, just and lasting peace. Furthermore, we call upon the two sponsors of the peace process to redouble their efforts to ensure that the chance for peace is not lost and the hopes for a new era of cooperation and concord, in which the potential of the 7 region is dedicated to economic development and social promotion, are not dashed. In this context, my country calls for the lifting of the embargo placed on the Palestinian people, and we ask the international community to mobilize the necessary resources to finance the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East so that it can do its job properly. In the Gulf region, the aftermath of the war continues to impede the normalization of the situation. The Islamic Republic of Mauritania, while reaffirming its dedication to international law and its commitment to respecting the principles thereof, again states its rejection of any violation of Kuwait’s independence, its territorial integrity and the security of its citizens, and calls for a rapid solution to the question of Kuwaiti prisoners. We also reaffirm our steadfast position that no measures should be taken that threaten Iraq’s unity and territorial integrity, and we call for the lifting of the embargo imposed against the Iraqi people, so that an end can be put to their suffering. We hope that the implementation of the resolution regarding “oil for food” can help to achieve this. Still on the same region, we reiterate our support for the United Arab Emirates in its desire to regain its sovereignty over the islands of Greater Tumb, Lesser Tumb and Abu Mussa. In the Arab Maghreb, my country is acting in cooperation with its brothers for the attainment of the aspirations of the States of the Union of the Arab Maghreb. On the subject of Western Sahara, my country welcomed with great satisfaction the agreement which was concluded on 16 September last in Houston in the United States under the auspices of Mr. James Baker III, the Personal Envoy of the Secretary-General, and which deals with the main issues that have hampered the implementation of the settlement plan for Western Sahara worked out by the United Nations in coordination with the Organization of African Unity (OAU). The Islamic Republic of Mauritania reaffirms its willingness to do everything it can to promote implementation of the plan for the settlement of this dispute. Furthermore, we call for the lifting of the embargo imposed against the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and we hope that the efforts of the League of Arab States and of the OAU to find a peaceful solution based on the principles of international law, a solution that will put an end to this situation so detrimental to the Libyan people and all other Maghreb peoples, will be given favourable consideration. On the question of Africa we hope that the meeting of the Security Council at the ministerial level held two weeks ago to consider the situation in Africa will contribute to the achievement of appropriate solutions to the problems of the continent. My country also wishes to reaffirm its commitment to the principles of dialogue and negotiation as the only way to overcome crises and conflicts and to defuse pockets of tension which exist in several parts of the continent. Accordingly, my country renews its support for efforts to revitalize the central organ of the OAU that deals with prevention, management and settlement of conflicts in Africa. As for the Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros, my country hopes that the efforts undertaken by the League of Arab States and the OAU will contribute to the settlement of the crisis in that country. We hope also that in Somalia the parties concerned will have recourse to constructive dialogue to reach a solution that will guarantee harmony and stability. In regard to the Republic of Congo, my country hopes that a peaceful solution that will restore security and stability will be found. We hope that there will again be a normal situation in Sierra Leone, in keeping with international law. The United Nations is today required more than ever before to react more vigorously to the problems facing the international community. The end of the cold war, and the international community’s awareness of the importance of coordination and dialogue, are positive factors for giving our Organization the necessary momentum to enable it to meet the challenges and to establish the bases for a new international order founded on the principles of justice and solidarity and guaranteeing the maintenance of peace and security throughout the world. There is no doubt also that being aware of the magnitude of the challenges and the need to pool our efforts to meet them is the best way to restore our hope of moving closer to the fulfilment of the ideal that was 8 consecrated at the ceremonies commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization: “We the peoples of the United Nations united for a better world”.  ﻿It is a great honour for me, as the representative of the people of Guatemala and as President pro tempore of the Central American Integration System, to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your well-deserved election to preside over the General Assembly at its fifty- second session. We wish to thank the President and the Secretariat for their understanding in allowing us to alter protocol and to address the Assembly in the form of a joint presentation. We Central Americans deemed it necessary and timely to do so because we wish in this way to highlight the importance, the scope, the depth and the extent of the changes that are taking place in Central 18 America after years of confrontation and suffering for our peoples and our region. We bring good news. Central America is undergoing remarkable changes, and the Central American leaders wish to share together here in this world forum the progress achieved in our region. We bring news of peace, democracy and development, news of understanding and cooperation, news of accord and unity. Our region is leaving behind years of internal war and authoritarianism to move into a constructive stage of political, economic, social, cultural and ecological strength, one that will enable us to enter the new millennium with new hopes and achievements by our peoples. And this new stage is being constructed with the respectful participation and responsible support of the international community. We must recall that barely 12 years ago we Central Americans were on the verge of a regional war and that our countries were experiencing the with full intensity of being one of the last settings of the so-called cold war. But then negotiation prevailed over conflict and we found Central American roads to peace, which led, 10 years ago to the Esquipulas II Accords, embodying the procedure for a firm and lasting peace in Central America. The processes of dialogue and reconciliation moved forward along difficult and complex roads. The heat of battle was replaced by the warmth of debate. Weapons were laid down, and we began the difficult but unpostponable march towards reconciliation, towards a return to the rule of law, towards democratic strengthening and towards peaceful and constructive coexistence. As may be recalled, at last year’s session I came before the Assembly anticipating peace in my country. In less than 10 months during 1996 we were able to complete negotiations on seven specific peace accords in Guatemala with the Unidad Revolucionaria Nacional Guatemalteca (URNG) and thus, on 29 December of last year, we arrived at the signature of the final Agreement on a Firm and Lasting Peace. Thus we did put an end to the 36 years of internal armed conflict that had torn at the very vitals of my country. As many here know, the process of complying with the accords has advanced with firm steps. Thanks to the will of the parties and the timely and determined collaboration of the international community, in barely three months the demobilization of the former guerrilla combatants was completed, with the assistance of a military Verification Mission of United Nations Blue Berets, approved by the Security Council. Without going into undue detail, I can reaffirm what we reported a few days ago in my country: the process of compliance with the peace accords is going forward decisively with regard to all fronts and commitments. The joint commissions envisaged in the accords have already been established, thus creating the broadest and most diversified structures of citizen participation in our history. The commitments on investment and public expenditure on health, education, justice and security for the people are already reflected in detail in the budget for next year, not only increasing the ratio of social investment to levels unprecedented in our history but also changing their orientation in order increasingly to favour rural areas. The National Congress is ready to discuss the agreed constitutional amendments. Similarly, the agreed institutional reforms have begun to be implemented in all areas. The process of the return of refugees from the neighbouring brotherly country of Mexico will be completed before the end of this year, and the guerrilla organizations that formed part of the URNG, having been demobilized, are returning to legality and are becoming a political organization that will participate in future elections. All of these important changes in my country are being verified and supported by the United Nations, for which we are deeply thankful. All these changes can be added to others that have already taken place in our isthmus and that are enabling us to rediscover our regional agendas of democratization and development. Indeed, while peace negotiations were progressing and maturing in Nicaragua, El Salvador and Guatemala, we once again undertook to revitalize our regional integration process. Following the finalization of the series of peace negotiations, that process of integration and regional development has taken on a renewed vigour and dynamism and has recently received a further important impetus. It gives us real pride and hope to be able to share with the Assembly a brief summary of our advances in that process and of the important decisions that we have recently taken. Fully aware that the region is going through a rare historical moment, one characterized by the existence of popularly elected Governments in all of the countries of Central America and a situation of peace, we deem it essential to design and implement regional and unified responses to the demands of our peoples and the challenges of globalization. 19 During the past three years we have made extraordinary progress in our integration efforts, which extend from a new conceptual horizon, one that has become better balanced and more inclusive with the creation of the Alliance for Sustainable Development and the establishment of innovative regional projects to increase regional competitiveness by means of joint efforts on the part of Governments, academic centres and sectors of production. We replaced the former common market in 1991 with a new legal framework that created the Central American Integration System (SICA). However, as we were also convinced of the need to go beyond mere governmental cooperation in our regional integration efforts, a few weeks ago, in Panama, we took an important step towards strengthening, deepening and developing our regional cooperation. We agreed on the broadest possible review and modernization of our regional institutional framework, as we were convinced that the benefits of development to which our people are entitled cannot be tapped by each country separately — they are attainable only to a regional community, because of the dynamics of today’s increasingly interdependent environment. For the first time, at our most recent meeting in Managua, all the Governments of the area agreed that we need to look beyond economic integration and clearly show the will and resolve needed to direct our efforts towards a possible regional political union, a community of independent nations that pool their capabilities without losing their individuality. And that is how we agreed to begin the gradual and continuing process of setting up the Central American Union, as a higher expression of communitarian partnership stipulated in the 1991 Protocol of Tegucigalpa. Thus, we have taken the first step in a broad and complex process that can bring us closer to the vision of a Central American Union, with the ultimate goal of producing the concrete results sought by our populations: overcoming poverty, creating opportunities, increasing the number of jobs, activating our production capacity, increasing our competitiveness, equitable and unified participation in the benefits of development, genuine democratization, equitable access to an efficient system of justice and the legitimate enjoyment of peaceful coexistence. We have redoubled our efforts to ensure that Central America is more united and better prepared to face the enormous challenges of its development and to respond creatively and dynamically to the international demands of our contemporary and ever changing world. We, the Central American leaders, have come together to this forum as genuinely united nations to demonstrate our common aim of regional unity and the efforts we are making to that end. We reiterate our deep appreciation for the support and cooperation of the international community to date, and I offer my best wishes for the prosperity of all as the new millennium dawns.  ﻿It is my honour to congratulate you, Sir, on your election and to assure you of the fullest cooperation of the delegation of San Marino. May I thank the outgoing President, His Excellency Mr. Razali Ismail, for his excellent work, and reiterate to the Secretary-General the best wishes of the Government and the people of San Marino for a successful fulfilment of his mandate. The goals that the United Nations is called upon to achieve are important and demanding, but also stimulating. These are times of great expectations for the United Nations, and the Republic of San Marino is determined to do everything within its power to help translate these expectations into concrete and effective actions. We must recognize that the United Nations has constantly inspired, promoted and instilled a greater respect for human rights. It has been building a new law of nations. The United Nations has made it clear that peace cannot be achieved and maintained unless serious imbalances are redressed and all human beings, by virtue of their fundamental right to dignity, are respected and not discriminated against because of their diversity. Equally essential are access to progress and development for all; the equitable utilization of our planet’s resources; and the avoidance of mere exploitation and abuse, which would jeopardize our future beyond repair. Although in recent decades conflicts no longer break out on a worldwide scale and in some cases take place within national boundaries, they nonetheless continue to 5 claim innocent victims, cause incalculable damage and undermine economies, especially those of the less developed countries. Indeed, the instruments of war have changed. They have become increasingly sophisticated and destructive and more easily produced and spread. Just think of anti-personnel landmines; it has been estimated that millions of them have been placed throughout the world and that for each cleared mine, 50 new ones are laid. In this connection, I stress the urgent need for all States to accede to the recently drafted Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on Their Destruction. As regards the fight against terrorism, San Marino is following with great attention the work of the Ad Hoc Committee charged with drafting an International Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings. The proliferation of violence and crime, which have become transnational, demands an adequate response by the international community. With reference to drug trafficking, San Marino is particularly active in the field of prevention. This year, our Government launched the “Youth Project”, which consists of a series of initiatives organized by, and dedicated to, young people, with the purpose of stimulating them to exploit their creativity and potential in a constructive way. In this regard, San Marino supports the Secretary-General’s proposal to convene a special session of the General Assembly in June 1998 on the traffic in illicit narcotic drugs. San Marino acknowledges that the Rio Conference indeed constituted a milestone in the history of our planet and revealed the magnitude of environmental degradation on Earth. Yet San Marino has observed with bitterness that concrete initiatives have fallen short of expectations. This was confirmed by the recent special session of the General Assembly on the review of Agenda 21. Worthy of praise is the Secretary-General’s proposal to revitalize the Trusteeship Council by entrusting it with a mandate of collective environmental safeguard. The environment is a priority concern for the Republic of San Marino. At the local level, a project is being undertaken for the monitoring of the territory which involves students of various school grades under the coordination and supervision of teachers. This project aims to enhance our citizens’ awareness of the fact that environmental protection is the responsibility of each and every individual. In the field of the prevention and suppression of child abuse, San Marino signed the Convention on the Rights of the Child and believes that the adoption of decisions aimed at defending children against any form of aggression, including sexual abuse, is of paramount importance. San Marino continues to support the fight against capital punishment, in keeping with the fact that it was the first European country to abolish it in the mid- nineteenth century, and it urges other Member States to adopt concrete measures to eliminate the use of the death penalty. And we must not forget the exodus of the many refugees who are fleeing their countries because of war, hunger or in the pursuit of the better future to which they are entitled. San Marino, which boasts a tradition of great hospitality towards refuge-seekers, is deeply concerned about the situation observed in refugee camps and their impact on local populations. We are grateful to the High Commissioner for Refugees, who daily fulfils this demanding task with efficiency. The United Nations is adjusting to the process of change by establishing the conditions for a concrete response. Its structure, organization and functioning must be on exactly the same wavelength as the new reality, and must be strong enough to face the challenges of the present — and those, even more demanding, of the coming third millennium. For this reason we appreciate the work already done by the Secretary-General and urge him to continue this essential process of renewal of the Organization. The United Nations reform package proposed by the Secretary-General is a good basis for a realistic and effective response with a view to reaching the lofty goals of the Organization: peace, social and economic progress, and safeguard of the rights of both individuals and peoples. Member States will be able to focus better on these goals by solving, first of all, the United Nations financial crisis. To do this, a new and more equitable scale of assessments is necessary, along with cost-cutting, the elimination or reduction of bodies and services where appropriate, and, most important, the avoidance of overlap with other organizations, including at the regional level. Small countries are particularly aware of this issue, since it is increasingly difficult for them to guarantee their 6 participation and contribution — and not only in financial terms. San Marino has given great attention to all proposals for the reform of the Security Council put forward by numerous countries during the debate. All of them are equally important and constitute an essential basis for the formulation of well-considered, comprehensive solutions. However, it is essential that participation in the conception and implementation of this restructuring not be confined to larger States. The future configuration of the United Nations should reflect a community of 185 countries, each and every one of them independent and sovereign according to the principles of universality and equality. Those are among the reasons that have led San Marino to support an increase in the number of non-permanent seats on the Security Council — though, and I stress this point once more, this is not the only issue. The reform of the United Nations does not consist of being present in major or minor bodies, but rather of shaping the future together through the understanding, participation, awareness, involvement and support of all. We shall shape a future where universal peace is guaranteed and safeguarded by the United Nations. San Marino is convinced that the United Nations must fulfil both a monitoring and a protecting mandate, on the one hand in favour of individuals whose rights and freedoms are limited or denied by their own States, and on the other in favour of those countries, especially smaller ones, whose development could be hampered or influenced. In this regard I wish to underline how all countries and the United Nations itself could benefit from the role played by small States, which can make a significant contribution to major issues as well, since they have no military, political or economic interests but rather a heritage of ideals, culture and traditions to safeguard. May these objectives be fully attained as the United Nations approaches the third millennium.  ﻿On behalf of the Vietnamese delegation, I wish to warmly congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the fifty-second session of the General Assembly. I am confident that under your wise guidance this session will be crowned with many fine results. I should like also to express the appreciation of the Vietnamese delegation for the active work done by Mr. Razali Ismail, President of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly, a session that marked new strides on the United Nations journey to fulfil its mandate in contributing to peace and development in the world as a whole. May I take this opportunity to warmly congratulate Mr. Kofi Annan, who, within a very short span of time since assuming the very important post of Secretary- General of the United Nations, has managed to accomplish a large amount of work, including efforts related to reform of the United Nations in the light of the profound changes in the world, in response to the aspirations of peoples with regard to our global Organization. Mankind is rushing towards the end of the twentieth century and preparing to enter the third millennium with an earnest desire for a more tranquil and better life. That desire becomes even more earnest when we look back at the last century, a century that has been darkened by the black clouds of two world wars and countless conflicts, large and small. That desire becomes even more urgent given that the boundless mind of man has produced numerous miraculous inventions, opening up a new era called the “post-industrial era” or “the information age”, while more than a quarter of the developing world’s population still lives in poverty, some 840 million go hungry or face food insecurity, and even in industrial countries more than 100 million people live below the poverty line and 37 million are jobless. Under these circumstances, it is understandable that all nations see the need to consolidate peace and promote development as their primary priority so as to turn the twenty-first century into a century with fewer conflicts and less poverty. Peace and development are companions; they go together like the two sides of a coin. Sustainable development is only possible if it is built upon the solid premise of a durable peace: peace for all nations, peace for every region and peace for the entire planet. Here, we fully subscribe to the views expressed in the Agenda for Development: development is a prerequisite for peace, and at the same time peace is a precondition for development. We may take satisfaction from the fact that, during the past year, a series of events have shown that the trend towards peace is continuing. Political solutions have been found for a number of decades-old conflicts. Relations between various nations, including the big Powers, have seen some partial improvements. Following in the footsteps of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), the Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) entered into force. The South-East Asia nuclear-weapon-free zone (SEANWFZ) has come into existence. In spite of all this, the world’s people still cannot be assured of a lasting peace if that peace is not constructed on an equitable premise. It is truly unfair that a few countries are entitled to maintain an absolute superiority, which even enables them to use their power to impose their will on other countries, while many countries have to live in the fear of insecurity. In this context, we hold that there is still a need to free our planet from the burden of nuclear weapons, to ban, totally and resolutely, the production, storage, threat and use of this most horrible and lethal type of weapon. In the same context, we expect the nuclear- weapon States to sign the protocol annexed to the SEANWFZ soon, in order to strengthen the power of the Treaty, thereby making a viable contribution to peace and stability in South-East Asia. Our world cannot have peace when conflicts are still raging in various parts of our planet. Today, the Middle East is again raising the deep concern of everyone. We share the position that tremendous efforts are needed to lead us to a durable and lasting peace for that region, which has suffered too much and too long. Such a peace can be achieved only on the basis of ensuring the safety of the nations living in this region, respecting the fundamental rights of the Palestinian people, including the right to establish an independent Palestinian State, and, most immediately, the strict implementation of the United Nations resolutions and the principles of the Madrid Conference, as well as the accords that have been concluded. In Asia and the Pacific in general and in South-East Asia in particular, where, fortunately, stability is on the rise, incremental efforts are being made to render this trend more durable. As a country bordering Cambodia, we give great attention to the situation in that neighbouring nation. Our position on the Cambodian question is clear to all: in conformity with our general foreign policy, we persevere in upholding the principle of full respect for the independence and sovereignty of nations and the principle that the affairs of a country must be decided by the people of that country itself, free from foreign interference. At the same time, from the bottom of our heart, we wish the Cambodian people peace and stability so that they can reconstruct a prosperous country in their homeland. We sincerely wish to tirelessly foster relations of friendship and cooperation with the Kingdom of Cambodia. Bordering the South China Sea, which we call the Eastern Sea, Viet Nam has always considered that disputes there should be settled by negotiation on the basis of international law, particularly the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, with a view to achieving a sustainable and lasting solution. For the time being, it is necessary to preserve the status quo, exert self-restraint and abstain from acts that may further compound the situation and prejudice the stability of the region and the safety of international maritime navigation. At the same time, we should seek cooperation measures acceptable to the parties concerned. We share the satisfaction at the recent positive developments related to the situation in the Korean peninsula, and it is our wish that these developments will lead to a durable peace in this very sensitive part of our world. Although peace is the most important condition for development, peace alone, without cooperation among States on the basis of equality and mutual respect and benefits, is not adequate. Today, in a world of ever- deepening interdependence, and under the impact of globalization and regionalization trends, the need for development cooperation is increasingly strong. It is obvious that nations are facing unprecedented opportunities for expanding markets, engaging more partners and intensifying investment and technology transfers in order to attain higher growth. Besides this, there is a rather stark reality, especially for developing countries: the process of liberalization has made competition extremely acute, and in that competition the advantages do not go to countries which, due to certain circumstances, are still at a low level of economic development. It is therefore no surprise that the gap between the rich and poor countries is widening, causing great losses to developing nations. That situation gives the international community two choices: either to let things go on, which will cause a more serious crisis, affecting the global economic and political situation; or to cooperate for shared development. In our humble opinion, the first scenario is not beneficial to anybody, while the latter brings about benefit for everybody. 2 With that perception, we are of the view that it is necessary to reverse the trend of decreasing official development assistance, both bilaterally and multilaterally. With that perception, we look forward to stronger technology transfers, because outstanding and rapid scientific and technological progress is presenting a danger of developing countries being left further behind. With that perception, we would like to emphasize the need to set up reasonable trade terms, taking into account the difficulties faced by developing countries, and to ensure that the developed countries broaden market access for commodities from the developing countries. With that perception, we believe that it is high time to completely do away with the obsolete ways of thinking and acting of the past, namely, the imposition of inequitable terms of economic and trade relations, sanctions and embargoes, and so forth, which distort international relations, cause suffering to the people and seriously violate the minimum right of human beings — the right to a peaceful life. Under the general circumstances of our world today, the need to reform the United Nations has become more and more imperative. We share many of the ideas that the Secretary-General has put forth. In our opinion, besides its contribution to the maintenance of peace, the promotion of equitable international cooperation — a top priority on the agenda of the United Nations — must mean more vigorous assistance to development. We offer our strong support for the ideas stated in the Secretary-General’s report, “Renewing the United Nations: a programme for reform” (A/51/950), which particularly underlined that the promotion of economic development and development cooperation was the primary mandate and function of the United Nations. It is our hope that countries, especially the developed ones, will enhance their contribution to the development programmes of the United Nations. On this occasion, I wish to express our high appreciation to the institutions of the United Nations system for the assistance extended to Viet Nam, especially for our economic renovation to implement social programmes of poverty alleviation, health care and education development, and international integration. The commitment to further enhance the efficiency of the partnership between Viet Nam and the United Nations development system was made by the two partners at the conference to review 20 years of Viet Nam-United Nations cooperation, which took place recently in Hanoi. With regard to the United Nations structure, our consistent view is that it should reflect the fundamental changes that have been taking place during the last half- century or more, the most notable highlight of which is that over 100 independent States have joined the United Nations. Its organizational structure and working procedures could be more democratized. The stature of developing countries needs to be strongly enhanced, including in the Security Council, and at the same time, the role of the General Assembly should be further strengthened. Along those lines, we share the view that it is necessary to increase the membership of the Security Council, both permanent and non-permanent categories, with a satisfactory number of seats given to developing countries in Asia, Africa and Latin America, and to ensure that every Member assumes similar responsibilities and rights. We believe that in order to work out a comprehensive programme for United Nations reform a Committee of the Whole should be established. The National Assembly of Viet Nam has just held the first session of its tenth term in Hanoi to elect the highest dignitaries of our State and approve the list of new government members, thus realizing important continuity of generations of leadership. This National Assembly is of special significance, as it will lead our country into the twenty-first century on the road of all- round renovation to attain the goal of “Wealthy people, strong country, just and civilized society”, through the process of national industrialization and modernization, in order to turn Viet Nam into a basically industrialized State by the year 2020. In its foreign relations, Viet Nam will constantly pursue an open foreign policy of independence, diversification and the promotion of multilateral relations along the line of gradual regional and international integration, thus making worthy contributions to the cause of peace, national independence, democracy and social progress. In line with this policy, Viet Nam will continue to stand as an active Member of the United Nations and the Non-Aligned Movement. In line with this policy, Viet Nam is making constructive contributions to the intensification of cooperation within the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) and is actively preparing the sixth ASEAN Summit to be held in Hanoi at the end of next year. In line with this policy, Viet Nam is competing with time to ensure the successful organization of the forthcoming seventh summit of French-speaking community in Hanoi. In line with this policy, Viet Nam is sparing no effort in making practical preparations to participate in the Asia-Pacific Economic 3 Cooperation Council and the World Trade Organization. Also in line with this policy, Viet Nam wishes to become a member of the United Nations Economic and Social Council at the elections to be held at this session of the General Assembly. We are confident that this reasonable wish of ours will meet with the generous support of Member countries. As we strive for the noble aspirations of peace and development on the eve of the new century, countries in the international community will continue to find in Viet Nam a sincere friend and constructive companion. On our part, we expect that United Nations activities will be ever more effective in enabling all countries to work for shared development in peace and partnership.   ﻿It is a great pleasure for me to congratulate Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly. I am confident that under his able leadership, the work of the fifty- second session of the General Assembly will be a success. I should also like to express our appreciation to Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia for the way in which he presided over the General Assembly during its previous session. I also express my warm congratulations to His Excellency Kofi Annan on his election to the post of Secretary-General of the United Nations. The relative euphoria created by the end of the cold war is being replaced by a sense of realism. Although the possibility of a global confrontation has been considerably reduced, ensuring security and preserving stability continue to be a major concern for the international community. We are witnessing the eruption of conflicts and serious tensions of a regional character as well as within individual States. Critical disparities in economic and social conditions exist around the globe. Large segments of the world’s population live in conditions of dire poverty. Achieving sustainable development remains a great challenge for the world community. On the other hand, the contemporary values we share, such as democracy, pluralism, tolerance, human rights and gender equality, require constant attention and effort. 14 Against this backdrop, international and regional organizations and, in particular, the United Nations, are in the process of redefining their role and functions in order to cope with new realities and challenges. The discussions and recent efforts to reform the United Nations have produced creative recommendations. Here, I wish to congratulate the Secretary-General for his comprehensive report. The far-reaching and substantive reform programme proposed therein satisfies our expectations. We strongly support the reform programme. On the other hand, we also share the serious concerns of the Secretary-General with regard to the need to put the Organization on a sound financial basis. We commend the Secretary-General for attaching the highest priority to the goals of alleviating poverty and enhancing development. This is indispensable for the achievement and maintenance of peace and security, both within and among nations. In this context, we appreciate the approach taken by the Secretary-General that the envisaged coordination of the Development Group must be done so as not to weaken in any way the authority and independence of the institutions in question, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) in particular. Making human rights an integral part of all relevant United Nations operations is also a commendable goal. We are pleased to see an eminent personality at the head of United Nations activities in the human rights field. The fiftieth anniversary, in 1998, of the adoption by the General Assembly of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights will provide the opportunity to reiterate our commitment to promote human rights all over the world. Elevating the standard of human rights to its highest level is the foremost duty and obligation of each State towards its own people. I should like to draw attention to the human rights problems and to the discrimination faced in particular by migrant workers and their families in some developed countries. The protection and promotion of their human, economic, social, cultural and political rights are matters of major concern in the human rights field. In this respect, Turkey supports the idea of a world conference on racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance. It would be a milestone in the decades- long struggle waged by the United Nations against racism and racial discrimination. Turkey also supports the efforts envisaged in the reform programme to enhance the capabilities of the United Nations to deal with transnational organized crime, narcotics and terrorism. One of the most important threats our world faces today is problems related to drug abuse. The special session of the United Nations to be held next year will enable us to chart the way for the new measures that must be taken in view of the threat posed by drug trafficking. The scourge of our age, no doubt, is terrorism. It is a threat to human rights and democratic institutions. It violates the most fundamental of all human rights: the right to life. It does not recognize boundaries. International cooperation is imperative in the fight against terrorism, and countries that refrain from participating in this cooperation must be condemned by the international community. We believe that the time has come to draft a global treaty on combating terrorism. In the same vein, we think that terrorist crimes should be included within the competence of the international criminal court that is to be established. The Secretary-General has proposed significant measures that bring the arms-control agenda to the forefront of multilateral cooperation. Renewed emphasis should be placed on the work of the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva, with a view to ending production of fissile material for weapons purposes. The United Nations Register of Conventional Arms should become an effective tool for monitoring arms transfers. Likewise, the international community should exert vigorous efforts to end illicit arms trafficking as a key element in the international struggle against terrorism. Peacekeeping stands out as one of the most significant undertakings of the United Nations. The development of the peacekeeping capability of the United Nations remains a pressing need, and one that Turkey supports wholeheartedly. Turkey has taken part, and continues to participate, in several peacekeeping operations. The ongoing work aimed at improving the representative character of the Security Council, increasing the Council’s effectiveness and efficiency and adapting it to current realities of the international community is of particular importance. Reform of the Security Council constitutes the most serious attempt in years to enhance the role and moral authority not only of the Council, but also of the United Nations as a world organization. 15 We have to ensure that the envisaged enlargement and future composition of the Security Council will correspond to the expectations of the largest possible segment of the United Nations membership. The reform process has to take into consideration the fundamental changes which have taken place on the international scene and recognize the ability and readiness of a group of States to assume a greater and more effective role. These States should be given the opportunity to serve on the Security Council more frequently and on a more regular basis. Security Council reform is too important to be tied to the settlement of other issues; it must satisfy the general membership and enhance the role and authority of the Organization. Located at the crossroads of three continents and several regions, including the Balkans, the Middle East, the Caucasus, the Mediterranean and Central Asia, Turkey stands ready to play an even greater role in the maintenance of peace, security and stability in its wider region. Today, the historical and cultural attributes of this vast geography, more than ever, find expression in Turkey’s foreign policy in terms of hopes and opportunities. A return to normalcy in Iraq and its reintegration with the international community are of vital importance for all countries of the region. Turkey supports the preservation of the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Iraq. Turkey has been fully complying with the United Nations sanctions regime imposed on Iraq. On the other hand, it is a fact that the sanctions have also produced totally unforeseen and negative effects on the economies of third countries as well as on the economy of Iraq. Turkey stands at the forefront of those countries which have been directly and most adversely affected by the sanctions regime. This unacceptable situation reminds us of the very pertinent remark of the former Secretary-General that “Sanctions are a measure taken collectively by the United Nations to maintain or restore international peace and security. The costs involved ... should be borne ... by all Member States and not exclusively by the few who have the misfortune to be neighbours or major economic partners of the target country.” [A/50/60, para. 73] We expect the Security Council to expeditiously consider Turkey’s application to the sanctions committee, and to take appropriate action. The Middle East peace process has been the single most important positive development in that fragile region in the recent past. However, events have recently taken, rather unexpectedly, an unfortunate and dangerous turn. Israeli settlement activities in the occupied territories, carried out despite the relevant Security Council and General Assembly resolutions and despite the provisions of the peace accords, and abhorrent terrorist activities by the enemies of peace have placed the peace process under a very severe strain. We urge the parties to do their utmost to establish mutual trust, without which it will be impossible to attain the objectives of the peace process. Afghanistan is another conflict area where the international community has so far been unable to help bring about a just and lasting solution. At present, even the national unity of the Afghan people is at stake. It is most unfortunate that the warring factions have been fervently pursuing the military option. Regrettably, one of the major obstacles to convincing the factions that a military solution is unattainable is the continuing supply of weapons, equipment and ammunition, along with military involvement from outside. My country has close historical ties with Afghanistan and the Afghan people. We feel very strongly about the independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity and national unity of Afghanistan. Taking this opportunity, I wish to reiterate Turkey’s readiness to host, in cooperation with the United Nations, an intra-Afghan meeting if and when all the parties are ready to participate. Turkey attaches particular importance to bringing its historical, close relations of friendship and cooperation with Balkan countries to the highest level. We support the multilateral initiatives aimed at securing peace, stability and cooperation in South-East Europe. Bosnia and Herzegovina continues to be a focus of the international community. The preservation of the independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity and unity of Bosnia and Herzegovina is a continuing responsibility undertaken by the United Nations. The full implementation of the Dayton Peace Agreement has not yet been secured. While the Federation has been working hard to implement the Peace Agreement, other quarters have been obstructing the whole process. The successful effort in July on the part of the Stabilization Force (SFOR) to apprehend and bring before the Tribunal war crimes suspects who remain at large was a commendable move. In order to achieve reconciliation and ensure peace and security in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is essential to prove that crimes committed will not go unpunished. The return of refugees and displaced persons to their homes constitutes another 16 essential element for achieving lasting peace and stability in the country. SFOR, to which my country is a troop contributor, has played a significant role in Bosnia for the maintenance of peace and order since the signing of the Peace Agreement. We believe that the continued presence of an international force in the area is crucial for durable peace. Albania and its people have passed through very difficult times. Ensuring internal peace and stability in Albania was a prerequisite for the preservation of peace and stability in the whole region. The multinational protection force, in which, again, my country took part, succeeded in restoring stability and order in the country. It was thus possible for the Albanian people to hold the parliamentary elections that paved the way for the resolution of the crisis. However, Albania still faces a difficult road on the way to full administrative, social and economic recovery. The need for concerted international support remains. Sharing close historical and cultural ties with the Albanian people, Turkey will continue to be of support to Albania. In our relations with Greece, our principal objective is to promptly tackle, through a substantive and result-oriented dialogue, the issues, mostly related to the Aegean, that still stand between our two countries. To this end, we have made several appeals to Greece to agree to a dialogue and to begin a process with a view to settling our differences. We do not rule out any agreed method of peaceful settlement of our differences. Furthermore, we have unilaterally implemented a number of confidence-building measures in the hope that they would be reciprocated. We expect that the group of “Wisemen”, consisting of two non- governmental personalities from Turkey and Greece, respectively, will be able to finally meet without further delay. This group has the task of preparing a report to be submitted to both Governments with non-binding recommendations for dealing with the issues. We also eagerly await the translation into concrete deeds, to promote better relations between our two countries, of the understanding reached during the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) summit in Madrid last July. Delaying this process by linking it to pre- conditions or artificial issues will not serve the interests of either country. It is evident that our bilateral problems cannot be resolved by the effort of Turkey alone, and that mutual commitment and the display of goodwill by both parties are imperative. The Caucasus, as a gateway between East and West, attracts world-wide attention politically and economically. We attach the highest significance to peace and stability, as well as to the preservation and consolidation of the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the countries of that neighbouring region. In this context, it is vitally important to bring about a just and lasting solution to the conflict between Azerbaijan and Armenia on the basis of international law. The Nagorny-Karabakh dispute still stands out as the principal obstacle to peace, security and enhanced bilateral and multilateral cooperation in the region, since more than one fifth of Azeri territory remains under occupation. We urge that the Minsk process and the decisions reached in that process will be taken seriously by all parties and that they will be implemented. The efforts made within this context by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE)/Minsk Group should be carefully considered by all parties concerned. As a member of the Group, Turkey will continue to contribute to these efforts. We welcome the recent August meeting in Tbilisi between the parties to the Georgian-Abkhazian conflict and the signing of a statement by the leaders on the peaceful and mutually acceptable solution to the conflict. In this regard, I would like to stress that Turkey is committed to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Georgia within its internationally recognized borders as stated in the Lisbon document of the OSCE. The Cyprus question has been on the agenda of the Security Council for almost 34 years. This roughly corresponds to the presence of the United Nations Peace- keeping Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP) in the island. It may be high time to find a real answer to why a solution has eluded us all this time in spite of the dramatic changes that have occurred both on the international scene and in Cyprus, and despite all the commendable efforts of successive United Nations Secretaries-General. After so many years it would be wrong, I believe, to continue to link a 34-year-old failure to the lack of political will or to the intransigence of one side or the other. We should ask ourselves where we failed, why the mistrust is still so deep in the island and whether we have made the right diagnosis of this problem. 17 There are two distinct peoples, two separate administrations and two democracies on the island. Along with these realities, bicommunality, bizonality and the maintenance of the 1960 system of guarantees should be considered as incontestable foundations for a settlement. It is obvious that reluctance to recognize the realities in the island, and the tendency to apply pressure to one side alone, have not led us to a negotiated solution. The last two rounds of talks, in Troutbeck and in Glion, have solidified this perception. We do believe that the lessons of the past and current developments on the international scene should compel us to adopt a realistic approach to the Cypriot issue. The establishment of an equilibrium between the legal and political status of the two sides to the dispute could be a starting point for a rethinking process. Time is of the essence in initiating such a process since one can foresee that in early 1998 a chain of events might hinder efforts to find a negotiated settlement, and further increase the tension both on the island and in the region. As witnessed in the recent face-to-face talks, the pursuit of European Union membership by the Greek Cypriot side has become the main impediment to progress, rendering the negotiating process increasingly meaningless and an agreed settlement even more elusive. Turkey and the Turkish Cypriot side firmly believe that efforts to carry forward this process will cast a shadow on the talks and might destroy the very foundation of the negotiation process. On various occasions, we have made our position clear on the issue of European Union membership of Cyprus. The 1959 and 1960 Treaties on Cyprus established an internal institutional balance between the two communities of Cyprus and, simultaneously, an external balance of interests between Turkey and Greece in their relationship with Cyprus. These Treaties unequivocally preclude the membership of Cyprus in any international organization, or political or economic union in which both Turkey and Greece are not members. Therefore, from a legal point of view, Cyprus can join the European Union only after a solution and simultaneously with Turkey. From a political point of view, this also appears to be the only viable outcome. We continue to entertain the hope that those who are concerned will act with an awareness of their historical responsibility, as the time approaches toward a decision on an issue which will have a determining effect on the future course of events in Cyprus. The deployment of S-300 missiles to southern Cyprus is another gloomy prospect. Coupled with ambitious rearmament efforts that the Greek Cypriot side has embarked upon, the purchase of highly sophisticated missiles aims at jeopardizing the security of the Turkish Cypriot people and of Turkey. We sincerely hope that in the end wisdom will prevail and this project, which may seriously affect peace and stability in the entire region, will be discontinued. The Minister for Foreign Affairs of Greece, in his statement earlier this afternoon, referred in a misleading way to my country and to the Cyprus issue. My delegation will speak in exercise of its right of reply at a later stage in response to the allegations contained in that statement. The challenges of building and preserving peace and of achieving development are closely linked. The United Nations, having successfully ended the first 50 years of its existence, is today well poised to take up these tasks. It is up to each Member State to make the best effort to contribute to this process. Turkey is determined to do its share. We sincerely hope that this session of the General Assembly will mark one more important step towards the realization of regional and global peace, stability, security, cooperation, solidarity and prosperity on the eve of a new millennium.   ﻿Allow me first to congratulate my colleague from Ukraine, Minister Hennadiy Udovenko, on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly, and to convey to him our appreciation and the confidence we place in his personal qualities and experience to steer the work of the current session. In his election, I see also the recognition of the role played on the international stage by Ukraine, a European nation with which we have friendly ties. I am pleased to recall the occasion on the margins of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) meeting in Portugal last May when he initialled a “letter on the special partnership between NATO and Ukraine”. I would also like to pay tribute to the outgoing President, Ambassador Razali Ismail, for the dedicated and competent manner in which he presided over the work of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly, and notably for his promotion of United Nations reform, which we consider to be essential. I wish to express my appreciation to the Secretary- General for the new dynamism he has brought to the Organization and for the proposals he has made for its modernization. My colleague from Luxembourg has already addressed the Assembly on behalf of the 15 member States of the European Union. However, I would like to reflect on a number of questions of particular importance to my country. The main question on our agenda is undoubtedly the reform of the United Nations. Despite its achievements and increasing importance on the international stage, the United Nations today needs a profound transformation to enable it to face the challenges of the next millennium. Portugal expresses its appreciation for the programme of reforms presented by the Secretary-General and reaffirms its readiness to participate in the further development of this initiative, taking up the challenge to build up a more effective Organization, with a better capacity to respond and a more rational utilization of its resources. The Portuguese Government supports in general terms the proposals contained in that programme. Among the instrumental measures proposed, Portugal sees merit in the creation of the post of Deputy Secretary- General. We also welcome the proposal to rationalize the debates of the General Assembly so that it may focus on specific themes. With regard to the area of peace and security, the primary focus of the action of the United Nations, we support the strengthening of its institutional capacity in the field of preventive diplomacy and of post-conflict peace-building. The creation of a rapidly deployable mission headquarters and the initiative of some Member States to constitute a high-readiness brigade are instruments that will permit the United Nations to strengthen its capacity to react to emerging crises. I am pleased to note that Portugal is ranked twenty-sixth among nations contributing troops for United Nations peacekeeping operations. We also believe that cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations should continue to be encouraged, particularly as concerns the African continent. With regard to the defence and promotion of human rights, I would like to commend the emphasis given by the Secretary-General to its cross-sectoral nature, which must be taken into due account in all the activities and programmes of the United Nations. In this context, we are also particularly pleased to see the proposal to fuse the Centre for Human Rights with the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights. The process of reform in this area will be carried out by the new High Commissioner, Mrs. Mary Robinson, whom I congratulate on her recent appointment. The effectiveness of intervention by the United Nations in humanitarian assistance is of special concern to us, including within the framework of the Security Council. Therefore, Portugal welcomes the proposal of the Secretary-General to restructure this sector by strengthening the role of the Emergency Relief Coordinator, as well as the suggestion for the establishment of an Economic and Social Council segment for humanitarian affairs. The promotion of social and economic progress is a fundamental goal of the United Nations. As the Secretary- 11 General rightly reminded us in an Agenda for Development, development cannot be attained in the absence of peace and security or in absence of respect for all human rights and fundamental freedoms. Portugal notes with satisfaction the process of readjustment proposed by the Secretary-General to strengthen the macroeconomic coordinating mechanisms of the activities of the United Nations and its specialized agencies. In the area of assistance for development, we see with equal satisfaction the focus on guaranteeing an integrated, coherent and coordinated activity of all funds, programmes and agencies involved. As we see it, however, such efforts must not jeopardize their respective autonomy and specificity. We understand the goals of the challenge launched by the Secretary-General to replenish the levels of financing for development activities of the United Nations. For our part, we pledge to continue our efforts, within the limits of our capabilities. We also believe that the persuasion and mobilization of the private sector may turn out to be very useful at a time of acute budgetary restrictions. In this context, and in the light of the increasing disparity between developed and developing countries, the proposal of the Secretary-General to channel savings resulting from reforms towards development activities is particularly welcome to us. The promotion of sustainable, equitable and socially just development has increasingly become a top priority for the United Nations. The guarantee of a balance between economic growth, the conservation of the environment and the protection of natural resources is essential for the future of our planet. Portugal therefore supports the proposals of the Secretary-General aimed at strengthening the United Nations Environment Programme as the core environmental agency of the United Nations. Finally, we cannot fail to underline that the goal of the reforms, particularly in the economic and social sector, should not be exclusively to reduce costs but to rationalize structures and consequently to improve the capacity of the Organization. We support a reform and enlargement of the Security Council that reflects the increase in the Members of the United Nations, takes into account the new political and economic realities and ensures fairer geographical distribution. In this way, the Security Council will be more democratic and therefore more effective in the formulation and implementation of its decisions. With regard to the composition of the Security Council, we advocate an equitable increase in both categories of membership, encompassing all regional groups, in order to make it more representative. As to the selection of new permanent members, we believe that certain criteria should be applied, namely, respect for the principles of the United Nations Charter, full acceptance of the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice and the capacity and will to contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security, as well as global influence. The Portuguese Government reaffirms its support for the inclusion of Germany and Japan as permanent members of the Security Council. But it would be difficult to understand if the increase in the number of permanent members did not also include States from the regions of Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean. In this context, among eligible countries, there is Brazil, a founding Member of the United Nations, the largest country in Latin America and a State that is committed to the principles of the Charter. Portugal believes particular emphasis should be given to the review of the working methods of the Security Council, not only in order to strengthen the transparency of its decision-making process, but also to create the conditions for an improved ability for non-members to accompany the work of the Council. In fact, this was one of the concerns of the Portuguese candidature for the Security Council for 1997-1998 and was one of the main priorities of the Portuguese presidency of the Council last April. Within the Security Council, we have advocated the holding of open Council debates to allow non-members to participate in discussions of matters of direct interest to them. We have also encouraged the involvement of the Security Council in debating themes which have particular relevance to its work, such as the promotion of human rights, the protection of refugees, humanitarian assistance and the impact of sanctions, aiming at providing a more coherent framework for the Council to act in the future. One of the most pressing concerns requiring an urgent response is resolution of the Organization’s serious financial crisis. We believe that the solution lies in the full and timely fulfilment of obligations, the unconditional 12 payment of arrears to the Organization, review of the scales of assessment so as to reflect the real capacity to pay of Member States, and applying financial rigour and rationalizing the use of existing resources. These proposals seek to guarantee a sound financial base for the United Nations. Portugal, a member of the troika of observer countries of the peace process in Angola, and a member of the Security Council, continues to pay particular attention to developments in that African country. We were particularly encouraged to witness the positive events of March this year: the formation of a Government of Unity and National Reconciliation including members of UNITA, as well as the return to the National Assembly of that movement’s parliamentary group. These important fulfilments of the 1994 Lusaka Protocol, which is the framework for the entire process, were undoubtedly an important step forward in the eyes of all those, foremost among them the Angolan people themselves, who yearn to see this great African country enter fully into a future of peace, national reconciliation and economic and social development. We are therefore understandably concerned about the new difficulties affecting the peace process, which have already resulted in the timely, and we hope decisive, intervention by the Security Council through its resolution 1127 (1997), adopted last month. As we stated on the occasion of its adoption, we consider the terms of the resolution — the ability to impose sanctions — to be a stimulus for UNITA to fulfil its obligations under the Lusaka Protocol, which it accepted freely. This is not an attempt to condemn UNITA to isolation or to exclude it from the peace process, of which it is, and should continue to be, an integral part. Peace in Angola is possible and necessary. But, as we have stated before, in the final analysis it depends on the political will of the Lusaka Protocol signatories. They must not, however, ignore the human, financial and material investments the international community has already made in Angola in defence of the peace process. Should the current impasse in the Angolan peace process continue, the international community will undoubtedly adopt the measures required under the circumstances. We therefore reiterate our appeal to the parties, and in particular to UNITA, to show the international community, by taking concrete steps, that they have decidedly opted for the road to peace, once and for all relegating to the past the spectre of a fratricidal war. Finally, I could not end this reference to Angola without saluting the Special Representative of the Secretary- General for Angola, Maitre Alioune Blondin Beye, who has been tireless in his mission to defend the peace process. We would also like to place on record our sincere appreciation to all those who, working with either great commitment with the United Nations Angola Verification Mission (UNAVEM III) or the United Nations Observer Mission in Angola (MONUA), embody the international community’s hope that a brighter future awaits the Angolan people. Year after year Portugal has brought to the attention of this Assembly the question of East Timor. Some may have thought that time would consign this question to oblivion. But the events of this last year have confirmed that the problem of East Timor is more alive than ever before in the conscience of the international community. I recall the award of the Nobel Peace Prize in 1996 to Monsignor Ximenes Belo and José Ramos-Horta, two East Timorese who, in different fields, have greatly distinguished themselves in taking up the rights and the identity of the people of East Timor. The award of that Prize also demonstrates the respect and solidarity of world public opinion for the struggle of a people for freedom and for their inalienable right to self-determination, which all Members of the United Nations are duty-bound to respect. Here, I would like to praise the recent initiative of the President of South Africa, Nelson Mandela, in support of the efforts of the Secretary-General, aimed at the release of the East Timorese leader Xanana Gusmao and of all other East Timorese political prisoners. Unfortunately, this increasing international attention to the question of East Timor has not resulted in an improvement of the situation in the territory, where the systematic violation of the most basic human rights persists and whose people continue to be denied the right to express and affirm their identity, despite the deliberations, year after year, of the Human Rights Commission. I would like to express our recognition of the new impetus which, in accordance with the mandate given to him by resolution 37/30, the Secretary-General has sought to give to the search for a negotiated settlement to the problem of East Timor by: appointing a Personal Representative dedicated exclusively to this matter, in the eminent person of Ambassador Jamsheed Marker; providing a more operational and active impulse to the tripartite negotiations under his auspices; and relaunching 13 the all-inclusive East Timorese dialogue which involves the active participation of the East Timorese in this process, involvement that is essential to its success. Only through negotiations will it be possible to find a lasting solution to the problem of East Timor. Portugal is contributing, with hope and commitment, to this new cycle of negotiations aimed at achieving a just, comprehensive and internationally acceptable solution for East Timor, according to the terms of the Charter and the relevant resolutions of the United Nations. Portugal has sought to give fresh impetus to its participation in international organizations, recognizing the dynamism and increased importance of multilateral forums in international life. Since the last General Assembly session, Portugal has hosted two important international meetings: the Summit Meeting of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the spring ministerial meeting of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). Portugal has also recently hosted two rounds of negotiations on Western Sahara. We welcome the positive results achieved on this question by the special envoy of the Secretary-General, Mr. James Baker. In 1998, Portugal will be hosting the eighth Ibero- American Summit, and will organize, in close cooperation with the United Nations, the first world conference of youth ministers, which will take action on the United Nations World Programme of Action for Youth to the Year 2000 and Beyond. I would like also to refer to the Community of Portuguese-Speaking Countries (CPLP). The promotion of the Portuguese language, spoken today by more than 200 million people, the new modalities of institutional cooperation which have been established and the coordination of the diplomatic and political positions of the founder countries in the many international forums involved, have made this organization, despite its youth, an attentive participant within the international community. The problems associated with the many components of the drug phenomenon are among the biggest challenges faced by our societies today. The phenomenon particularly affects our young people, and its global nature certainly requires a concerted response on the part of the entire international community. In this context, and given that Portugal is presiding over the preparatory work for the special session of the General Assembly on drugs, which will take place in June 1998, I would like to underline the importance we attribute to that event. We sincerely hope that that session will produce a clear political commitment on the part of Governments to combat the drug plague, and that concrete steps will be taken in that direction. With a view to achieving these objectives, I appeal to Member States to be represented at the special session at the highest political level. With regard to sustainable development, Portugal has closely followed the implementation of the principles established by the Rio Summit. The nineteenth special session of the General Assembly confirmed, however, that we are still far from implementing fully the goals established there. Allow me to underline the three components to which Portugal attributes particular importance: combating desertification, protecting the forests and protecting the oceans. Portugal considers that in the fight against desertification the United Nations Convention is the fundamental legal instrument for the implementation of new international actions on this matter. With regard to the northern Mediterranean, we will continue to promote the most extensive cooperation with our partners, and we are open to closer association with the countries of North Africa in a joint effort involving the entire Mediterranean region. In the area of the preservation of forests, we support action undertaken, particularly in the context of the United Nations, with a view to the conservation, integrated development and sustainable management of this important heritage of mankind. I would like to draw attention to the holding in Lisbon in June 1998 of the third Pan-European ministerial Meeting on the protection of the forests, which we hope will contribute significantly to protecting forest ecosystems that have deteriorated. As regards the oceans and seas, Portugal will continue to support efforts to preserve them, advocating in particular the more effective protection of marine biodiversity and the integrated management of coastal, continental and insular zones. Following the proclamation of 1998 as the International Year of the Ocean, Portugal is proud to be organizing in Lisbon the last universal exposition of this century, Expo 98, which will be dedicated to the theme “Oceans: a heritage for the future”. Particularly relevant in this context will be the work of the Independent World Commission on the Oceans, chaired by the former President of the Portuguese Republic, Mr. Mario Soares, the conclusions of which 14 will be presented to the General Assembly at its next session. I would like to end my statement with a word of hope and optimism for the future of the Organization. We believe in a revitalized and even stronger United Nations for the twenty-first century. The Assembly can count on our efforts to work towards that goal.  ﻿At the outset, I would like to extend to Mr. Udovenko our most sincere congratulations on his election to the high office of President of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session, as a representative both of a neighbourly and friendly country and of a region that has significantly increased its presence in the United Nations family in recent years. At such a decisive moment for the future of our Organization, he has a mandate of high responsibility and I offer him our full support. It is a great honour for me to address, for the first time, this prestigious forum, with its wide participation and global vocation, in my capacity as the representative 17 of a coalition Government that arose 10 months ago in a democratic transition of power. From the outset, I would assure the Assembly that the new Romanian Government, in its strategy of consolidating the rule of law and a free- market economy, means to cooperate with and rely on the United Nations and its specialized agencies. We are interested in making the Organization capable of reacting more rapidly and efficiently to the current needs of Member States and to the new global challenges at this twilight of the millennium. A few weeks ago, the Romanian Government, with support from the United Nations Development Programme, convened in Bucharest the third International Conference of New or Restored Democracies. The Conference focused on the link between democracy and human centred development, both as a subject and as the target of political action, a theme of great interest that is currently enjoying top priority on the United Nations agenda. In my capacity as Acting President of the Conference, I have the honour to submit to the Assembly’s attention the document containing its proceedings and results. Government representatives from 77 States and, for the first time, non-governmental actors of civil societies, along with 14 international organizations, examined in a constructive and positive manner the current status and future issues of the process of consolidating their democratic systems and adopted by consensus a review and a set of recommendations, distributed as an official document of the General Assembly at this session. These recommendations spell out the need for good governance and for broad participation by civil society in the democratic exercise, as well as for strengthening democratic institutions in order to face the challenges generated by globalization, corruption and organized crime. At the same time, Romania believes that it is of the utmost importance to ensure the continuity of the Bucharest Conference’s efforts and its practical consequences. That is why, in keeping with the recommendations advanced in Bucharest, we suggest that a follow-up mechanism be established for the consolidation process of new or restored democracies. We plan to continue consultations with the Secretary- General and with interested States and international organizations on these themes and on the proposal to convene a summit of the new or restored democracies in the year 2000. I am confident that the results of the Bucharest Conference will act as points of reference in the debates of the current session. We shall work for the adoption by the General Assembly of a resolution reaffirming the support of the United Nations system for the efforts of Governments to consolidate the new or restored democracies. In line with the collective commitment we made at the United Nations fiftieth anniversary ceremonies, we are among those who believe that the strengthening of the Organization’s capacity to respond adequately to the new needs and challenges of the twenty-first century is of highest priority. It is in the interests of our Organization to achieve, even at this session, realistic and balanced results, of mutual interest and the widest possible benefit, to enhance its credibility and viability. We welcome the Secretary-General’s report on a programme for reform and we assure him of our confidence and support in achieving its objectives. We associate ourselves with the European Union’s position. Indeed, reform should be not a cost-cutting exercise, but rather a matter of strengthening the Organization’s role as an active and efficient world forum. Our objective is to make the United Nations more efficient, more transparent, more responsible and, last but not least, more credible. We also believe that the dividends obtained through better financial and personnel management — the so- called “dividends of reform” — should be reallocated to development activities for the developing countries. It is in this spirit that the delegation of Romania will take part in the reform process and cooperate with all interested delegations in identifying solutions enabling the General Assembly to reach a general agreement on a coherent and constructive response to the Secretary-General’s proposals. We have the opportunity today to live in a world awakened from the cold-war nightmare that divided us irreconcilably into friends and enemies, a world of communications and interaction in which closed societies cannot survive. Increasing globalization should help us to know each other better and bring us closer together to build common projects. We are even invited to rethink our global society, the relations among us and the direction of our political actions. A new political philosophy, the philosophy of partnership, asserts itself in the context of relations between States, whereby what a 18 country gains is added to and not deducted from its partner’s benefit. This philosophy was promoted in the last half century in European and Euro-Atlantic structures, with acknowledged positive results in the field of stability and cooperation on the continent. This is also why Central and Eastern European countries are naturally keen to integrate themselves into such structures. That is also the philosophy Romania uses as a basis in developing a solidarity and cooperation policy at the subregional, regional and international levels aimed at consolidating and activating stability in its geographic region and throughout the world. We have tried fully to normalize relations with our neighbours, and we have proposed trilateral cooperation plans to our partners in the region. At the same time, we launched the idea of reviving the traditional commercial routes to Northern Europe and Central Asia. The same concept of building a network of communication and mutually beneficial cooperation is the basis for the development of economic cooperation in the Black Sea region and for our involvement in the Central European Initiative, the Central European Free Trade Agreement, the Southeast European Cooperative Initiative and so forth. The participation of Romania in the United Nations peacekeeping Mission in Angola, in the stabilization efforts of operation Alba in Albania and in Bosnia and Herzegovina, under the auspices of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), are testimony to our political willingness to act as a stabilization factor. At the same time, I would like to point out that Romania is ready to increase its contribution to the Stabilization Force (SFOR) in Bosnia and to contribute to other similar actions, such as the United Nations Preventive Deployment Force (UNPREDEP) in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and other forces that remain necessary in that area. All these efforts to establish an environment of confidence and cooperation that generates peace and security in Central and South-East Europe, as well as in some hot spots of the world, reveal not only a new approach, but also a new stage that Romania is passing through on its way from totalitarianism to democracy. In the current “post-transition” phase, the results achieved in the democratic processes and economic reform, which have been recognized by the international community and financial institutions, qualify Romania legitimately to play a clearer and more active role in defining and designing common projects of security and progress in the region and in the world, including within the United Nations and its specialized agencies. I would like to make a few remarks on some other important items on the agenda. From the experience we have gained in our region and in neighbouring regions — Central and South-East Europe, the Middle East and the Caucasus — it can be concluded that poverty, the absence or weakness of institutions that are characteristic of the modern democratic State and distrust are among the causes of crises and conflict situations. Specific steps by the United Nations system and the entire international community are required to eradicate poverty. They should be aimed at supporting the countries of the region that are confronted with this phenomenon so that they can increase their production through the adequate use of their own specific resources and economic capabilities. Hampering such a process can have only negative consequences in the field of security and stability. With regard to strengthening institutions that are part of a State based on the rule of law, it is necessary to create, alongside rapid-reaction forces for peacekeeping, a so-called civilian rapid-reaction force to support the establishment of institutions capable of maintaining State order and coherence in an open and free society. Building up confidence involves dialogue and communication, as well as the elimination of any form of isolation. The United Nations should be efficiently involved in the dismantlement of terrorist infrastructures all over the world. At the same time, it is necessary to give up rhetoric and spectacular gestures in favour of direct negotiations between the interested parties, in a quiet and discreet atmosphere. We would like to point out the importance Romania attaches to dialogue conducive to solutions negotiated by the parties directly involved, be it in the Middle East, Cyprus or the former Yugoslavia. It is our firm belief, particularly since our latest political contacts in the Middle East and in Bucharest, that the resumption of negotiations between the interested parties, based on the principles agreed in the Madrid and Oslo accords, is the only way to achieve an equitable and lasting peace in the region. We welcome and support the recent United States initiative, as well as the efforts of other countries, to 19 unblock the peace process. We also welcome the direct negotiations, under the auspices of the United Nations, between the two communities of Cyprus with a view to an equitable and lasting solution to the Cyprus issue, and we express our willingness to take part in the peacekeeping operation in that country. As main guarantor of peace and international security, the United Nations should play an active role in crisis prevention and management, using preventive diplomacy and, when necessary, peacekeeping operations. Romania will support such United Nations actions and intends to diversify its contribution by including civilian components in its contributions. In the field of arms control and disarmament, we consider that the United Nations can and should set an example of change in concept and approach that go beyond the vestiges of the bloc mentality and lead to arms control and disarmament solutions capable of ensuring global security, with the existence of several centres of economic and cultural power. We attach special importance to nuclear non-proliferation issues, including the negotiation of a treaty to ban the production of fissionable materials for military purposes, the implementation of the Chemical Weapons Convention, the United Nations Register of Conventional arms and the processes aimed at banning anti- personnel landmines. The debates on economic and social issues should create the foundations for the necessary relaunching of the North-South dialogue on development, as such issues have been largely ignored in the context of the political developments subsequent to the collapse of the Soviet bloc and the end of the cold war or on matters linked to the expansion of NATO and the European Union. Our debates will have to take into account the recent trends in world economy — such as high rates of growth, far exceeding those of gross world product achieved by world trade; transportation; and the volume of direct investment and international financial transactions — and the necessity of ensuring a wider access of goods produced in developing countries to the developed countries’ markets and enhanced cooperation on third markets. All these elements call for a conceptual reconsideration of the development process that gives due attention to the social component and ensures the participation of the main actors: Governments, private sectors, transnational corporations and civil society. In this respect, we suggest that thought be given to the idea of setting up a social solidarity fund to help disadvantaged persons and support the integration of unemployed and marginalized persons into productive activities. The Romanian economy has reached macroeconomic stability, by decreasing the inflation rate and the budgetary deficit, and started structural reform, in particular in the agricultural sector. Consistent efforts are being made to speed up privatization and attract foreign investors. With all this going on, we are interested in participating in a debate that can highlight measures envisaged by Governments for what the Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund recently called “second generation reform”, which will focus on microeconomics and social protection policies. We believe that development assistance requires new and increased mobilization from the international community, and we favour enhanced coherence in the country programmes undertaken by United Nations bodies and funds, and more efficient use of resources allocated for development. In view of the new threats facing our societies and institutions, we support measures aimed at strengthening the capacity of the United Nations in international drug control and the fight against corruption and organized crime. We welcome the establishment in Vienna of a single Office for Drug Control and Crime Prevention, as well as the convening, in 1998, of a special session of the General Assembly on drug control. Furthermore, we propose consideration of the United Nations declaring an international year for the fight against corruption and organized crime. This major issue could also be the subject of a special high-level segment of the General Assembly. Our objective is to elaborate and put into practice international cooperation instruments that enable us to work together to protect ourselves and eradicate these scourges. We shall soon begin preparations for celebrating, in 1998, the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Let us take this opportunity to reaffirm our firm commitment to the universality of all human rights, whose promotion and protection should always remain a priority for the United Nations. We support the measures envisaged by the Secretary-General to strengthen the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and we welcome the appointment of the former Irish President, Mrs. Mary Robinson, as High Commissioner. With regard to administrative and budgetary questions, the Romanian delegation is in favour of the Secretary-General's proposals for the regular budget for the 1998-1999 biennium, with the understanding that the 20 reductions will not affect the future capacity of the Organization to fulfil its mandate. We support the efforts to improve the Organization's financial situation and place it on a sound and predictable footing. It is particularly important that, through open and constructive negotiations, we achieve feasible solutions with regard to the future payments of arrears and a new scale of assessments for the regular and peacekeeping budgets, thus reflecting the new realities and real capacity to pay of each State. Finally, I assure the Assembly, once again, of the full cooperation of the Romanian delegation in our joint efforts to strengthen and enhance the efficiency of the United Nations. ﻿I am very pleased to see the Foreign Minister of neighbouring Ukraine assume the 12 prestigious post of President of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session. In fulfilling your challenging tasks you may rest assured of the support and cooperation of the delegation of Hungary. Our tribute and thanks are also due to your predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia, who served us with distinction and innovative spirit. In the post-cold-war era, international organizations are undergoing a profound adaptation process. Here, in the United Nations, we are only at the beginning of a bumpy road. Whether the United Nations can find its place in the new international political environment of the twenty-first century depends on our foresight, realism and determination. If our decisions are underpinned by a strongly shared joint commitment to tackle the global agenda, we can make the United Nations relevant for the next millennium. The reform proposals presented by Secretary-General Kofi Annan are guided by the urgency of the task, sober realism and healthy idealism as well as personal commitment to change. We welcome the intention of the Secretary-General to proceed to the early implementation of concrete organizational measures within his own areas of competence. The package of proposals which require action by the Member States themselves truly captures those areas of United Nations activities where agreements are necessary at this stage. The suggestions to ensure the desired coherence of United Nations efforts in development cooperation, to bolster its institutional capacity to combat international crime, drug-trafficking and terrorism, or to integrate human rights concerns into all principal United Nations activities and programmes deserve our full support and need swift and concrete action. Let me add the voice of my delegation to all those who have called for approval at this session of the package as a whole, which will have to be followed by practical steps in order to translate it into meaningful action. In its foreign policy Hungary continues to serve international peace and stability, with special regard to its own region. The tragic events in former Yugoslavia, the crises and convulsions on the territory of the former Soviet Union and elsewhere, the emergence of aggressive nationalism as well as populism in Central and Eastern Europe, as an appealing “remedy” for political problems, economic difficulties and social tensions, are vivid reminders of the critical, sometimes lethal, nature of these challenges. They underscore how important it is that the international community act with appropriate means and in a timely manner. Hungary supports the efforts of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and of other multilateral regional organizations to help prevent new conflicts, to initiate, where needed, peacekeeping and peace-building activities, to solidify the rule of law and to promote cooperation in the OSCE area. My country is seeking to consolidate genuine good-neighbourly relations with all the countries of its region, especially with countries bordering it, and to launch regional initiatives and enhance regional cooperation to better respond to the new challenges threatening regional stability. It is in this spirit that we have been active in the creation of, and have sought to expand, various forms of regional cooperation, such as the Central European Initiative, the Central European Free Trade Agreement and the South- East European Cooperative Initiative, involving a large number of countries in the region, or have moved ahead with trilateral, more tailor-made, cooperative schemes with a number of our immediate neighbours. Regional and cross-border cooperation is a valuable asset for regional stability and security, and has to be utilized to its full potential. As we look forward, from the invitation we received from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Summit in Madrid to the winding up of the accession talks with the Alliance, and in the expectation of the commencement of negotiations on our entry into the European Union next January, we wish to develop further such regional activities of dialogue and wide-ranging cooperation in order to prevent the emergence of new dividing lines and to assist all the countries of the region in their drive to join the mainstream European developments. We are also confident that Hungary, through the structures of Euro- Atlantic integration, will become an even more active partner and supporter of the United Nations. The post-cold-war era has brought to the forefront urgent questions. These include issues related to the future operation of the United Nations conflict- management capacity. The debate unfolding on these problems has political, legal and, quite often, emotional dimensions as well. We welcome the proposals of the Secretary-General geared towards enhancing the rapid reaction capabilities of the United Nations. 13 It is in this context that in recent years Hungary has increased its participation in United Nations mandated peacekeeping operations in a variety of ways, including both infrastructural and logistical support and the deployment of military and police personnel, an example of which is the Hungarian contribution to the Implementation Force and the Stabilization Force and the considerable increase in the number of Hungarian peacekeepers serving in the United Nations peacekeeping force in Cyprus. We are pleased that the performance and professional skill of my compatriots engaged in various such operations all across the globe are considered positively. The issue of the functioning and the size of the Security Council has been extensively dealt with at several United Nations forums. Legitimacy and efficiency are both important premises for any pattern of Security Council reform. The general view is that, once the Security Council is enlarged, its size and composition should be not an impediment, but, rather, an asset for effective decision- making and action, enjoying the widest possible support and cooperation of the membership at large. Agreement on Security Council enlargement is a fundamental pillar of the United Nations reform process. We have to make sure that with a future Security Council comprising Germany, Japan and countries each from Africa, Asia and Latin America and the Caribbean as permanent members, and also additional non-permanent members, we preserve and enhance the purpose-oriented character of this important body. The financial reform of our Organization is an indispensable prerequisite to ensure its viability and relevance. Payment of assessed contributions is an obligation under the United Nations Charter. Hungary has made serious efforts to meet all its outstanding financial assessments, and now we belong to the yet small, but, hopefully, growing group of Member States which pay all their contributions to the regular as well as peacekeeping budgets in full and without conditions. To solve the financial crisis, we must find a way that is acceptable to Member States and is good for the Organization. The delegation of Hungary stands ready to join in further constructive efforts along the lines of the proposal presented by the European Union with a view to arriving at a comprehensive compromise solution. After the demise of the political structures of the cold war, international protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms can no longer be relegated to some distant corner of United Nations activities. As a legitimate concern of the international community, human rights issues should be given their due weight in all United Nations activities, in a well coordinated manner. This must be reflected in the provision of adequate funding. Today, human rights are violated on a massive scale worldwide, and we all must stand up in their defence and hold violators accountable wherever abuses occur. We are aware that there exist regional, cultural and other specificities in the field of human rights. We believe, however, that these should not stand in the way of consistency in promoting universal respect for human rights and should not allow complacency to surface in attitudes towards human rights violations. We are pleased with the Secretary-General’s excellent choice of Mrs. Mary Robinson to serve as the next High Commissioner for Human Rights. We will lend her assistance to make the United Nations more effective in responding to human rights challenges, including those stemming from ethnic discrimination. As recent developments have shown, these represent a threat to regional and international stability and security. Development and environment are questions of the utmost importance for the future, and even the survival, of humankind. United Nations activities in this sphere should lead to the elaboration of a comprehensive programme for sustainable development acceptable to all nations. We wish to voice our concern about the insufficient progress achieved in this domain. We lend our full support to efforts aimed at seeking solutions to the burning questions of underdevelopment and at stopping the processes of degradation of the ecological habitat of our planet. Armed conflicts continue to take their toll, sometimes decades after the cessation of hostilities, due to the presence of anti-personnel landmines. The plight of tens of thousands of innocent victims has been a growing source of international concern in no small part as a result of effective advocacy by human rights groups and humanitarian organizations. Hungary stands for the total ban of these devices. My Government has supported the Ottawa process from its very inception; it welcomes the success of the Diplomatic Conference held on this issue at Oslo and intends to become one of the first signatories of the new Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on Their Destruction. This is an important milestone in the development of international humanitarian law and in the endeavour to put an end to 14 the immense human suffering caused by the proliferation and indiscriminate use of these weapons. At the same time, in our view, the remarkable achievements of the Oslo Conference do not diminish the role that other forums, including the Conference on Disarmament, can play in promoting the objectives of the new Convention. The horrible atrocities and genocidal acts committed during recent conflicts have speeded up negotiations on establishing international criminal jurisdiction on war crimes and crimes against humanity. By establishing the ad hoc tribunals on former Yugoslavia and on Rwanda, the international community reaffirmed an important principle: all those having committed war crimes or crimes against humanity are to be held personally responsible and accountable. It is our legitimate expectation that all persons indicted by the tribunals will be brought to justice and moreover that failing to cooperate fully with the tribunals will not remain without consequences. The experience gained from the functioning of these two ad hoc tribunals has paved the way for the wider acceptance of the idea of an international criminal court, thus creating a firm legal basis at the universal level for the establishment of individual criminal responsibility with regard to war crimes and crimes against humanity. We are committed to pursuing vigorously the negotiations at this session to enable the finalization of the statute of the court at the diplomatic conference to be held next year. At this session, we have to focus our efforts on preparing the ground for practical steps to make the United Nations a viable and dynamic body. We must maintain the momentum for change if we want to ensure a decent future for the human experiment.  ﻿I would like to begin by extending to you, Sir, my warmest congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session. We are certain that your long experience and diplomatic skills will guide us successfully in our work at this session of the General Assembly. I would also like to thank your predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia, for the determined leadership with which he steered our work at the fifty- first session. Our Organization, with its universal membership, comprehensive mandate and broad spectrum of activities, is the only global forum able to pursue and achieve the universal goals we all strive for: a secure and peaceful future, a narrowing of the gap between rich and poor, full respect for human rights, free and equitable trade, the protection of the environment and the promotion of sustainable development. I am pleased once again to be able to take this opportunity to renew our commitment to the ideals and aims that all of us here share. This year is a landmark in the reform process of the United Nations because of the active measures taken by the Secretary-General of our Organization to tackle long- standing and deep-rooted issues. Last July, the Secretary- General presented to us a comprehensive package of reforms designed to help the Organization rationalize and streamline its operations, secure its financial position and refocus itself to meet the changes in the global order, thus allowing the United Nations to fully utilize the strengths and expertise it already possesses. We are therefore particularly pleased to welcome these proposals by the Secretary-General. We hope that, by the conclusion of the debate on this issue that will take place in the plenary during this session, we shall reach a consensus, thus creating the necessary momentum for their speedy implementation, and produce concrete results before we reach the new millennium. The reforms are being introduced at a time when it is generally acknowledged that the High-Level Working Groups mandated by the General Assembly to examine specific issues, from the restructuring and strengthening of the main United Nations organs to ensuring a firmer and lasting financing for our Organization, have yet to achieve substantial progress. From this rostrum, I have stated before that we subscribe to the need to reform the Security Council by making it representative of the increase in the membership of the United Nations and reflect the changes in the post- cold-war world. We consider the need to reform the Security Council a top priority, for it directly affects its capacity to discharge its cardinal responsibility — that of maintaining international peace and security. In this regard, we welcome the progress already achieved in the working methods of the Security Council and expect further steps towards transparency and democratization. A number of proposals have been put forward by Member States over the last three years. Further deliberations are required, however, to achieve an agreement that would command the general support of the membership of the Organization. An important step this year concerns the work of the Organization in the field of international economic and social cooperation. After three years of hard deliberation, the General Assembly adopted its Agenda for Development last June. This is a great step forward because, as the Secretary-General himself states in his report on the work of the Organization, it addresses not only the conventional development issues but also stresses the mutually supportive though complex relationships among development, peace, democracy, good governance and human rights. Equally important was the convening of the nineteenth special session of the General Assembly to review the implementation of Agenda 21 — the global plan of action for sustainable development — which was adopted five years ago at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro. I believe that an important part of the future work of this Organization will lie in following up the work done at the major conferences and in reviewing the implementation of the plans and programmes they adopted. The United Nations of the future must give most urgent priority to the Agenda for Development. Any modern concept of international peace must recognize that peace, security and development are indivisible. It is indisputable that one of the major strengths of the United Nations is its universality. It is at once global, regional and locally based. It has achieved great results in the fields of international interaction. Its activities have a tremendous effect on our everyday lives. At this juncture, I should commend and stress the important role of the Organization in the promotion of full respect for and universal application of human rights, as well as for the progressive development and codification of international law. In this respect, we fully support the establishment of the international criminal court, which we have long advocated, and welcome the progress made in the Preparatory Committee and the increased momentum towards its fruition. Though local and ethnic conflicts still persist, seriously affecting the maintenance of international peace and security, the role of the Organization in disarmament for the past twelve months has been marked by great steps. A number of significant conventions have already been concluded or have entered into force. In welcoming these achievements we feel we must continue to move ahead for their full and effective implementation. We must also cherish the Organization’s contribution to development and education, its work against hunger and illiteracy and, in short, its role in restoring and upholding human dignity. We believe in the United Nations and in the Charter, not as an abstract ideal, but as a functioning, indispensable, concrete entity. The principles and ideals of the United Nations have formed the cornerstone of our foreign policy since our independence and membership in the United Nations. We are fully committed to strengthening the Organization by helping it tackle its 2 precarious financial position, streamline and rationalize its operations and exploit to the full its uniqueness and its unrivalled expertise. We are confident that the Organization will be able to harness the forces of change in ways that will benefit us all. This year the United Nations has been especially active on certain long-outstanding issues such as East Timor, Western Sahara, the situation in the Middle East and Cyprus. We welcome the developments on the question of Western Sahara and the agreement reached on the implementation of the settlement plan under the auspices of the Secretary-General and his Special Envoy. We hope that these positive achievements will move the peace process forward and bring a final settlement to this long drawn-out situation of tension and conflict. Despite our earlier hopes based on the peace agreement, the current events in the Middle East and the worsening situation in the occupied territories are cause for great concern. As a neighbouring country, we wish to reiterate our support for the efforts to achieve peace in the area on the basis of the agreements reached and of the relevant United Nations resolutions. As to the question of Cyprus, 1997 has been a year of intense diplomatic activity, culminating in face-to-face intercommunal talks under the auspices of the United Nations last July and August in Troutbeck and Glion, respectively. The resumption of the talks was the result of the untiring efforts of the Secretary-General, encouraged and actively supported by the international community. The Security Council closely pursued the developments on the question of Cyprus, and nine individual countries appointed special representatives on Cyprus. The European Union, through the Special Representative of the Presidency, was also following developments closely. When invited by Mr. Kofi Annan last June to attend face-to-face talks with the leader of the Turkish Cypriot community in Troutbeck and later in Glion, we responded positively and demonstrated our sincere and unwavering commitment to the peace process as the only means of solving the Cyprus question, and our will to work for a comprehensive, just and viable solution. Our will was tested even harder when, on the eve of the talks, Turkey and the so-called Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, which is not recognized internationally except by Turkey, signed an illegal agreement purporting to lead to the annexation by Turkey of the areas occupied by the Turkish forces if the European Union proceeded to accession negotiations with Cyprus. Despite this enormous provocation, we reacted in a low key in order to avoid tension which would affect adversely the climate of the talks. During the talks we worked hard and cooperated constructively with Mr. Cordovez, the Secretary-General’s Special Adviser, with the sole aim of breaking the impasse and moving forward to reverse the status quo created and maintained by Turkey since 1974 by the use of force and declared unacceptable by numerous Security Council resolutions. In contrast, the response of the other side was completely negative. Despite our constructive attitude, despite the efforts of Mr. Cordovez and those of other interested countries through their representatives, Mr. Denktas¸ refused to hold any discussions on the substance of the Cyprus problem unless the European Union froze its plans for accession talks with the Government of the Republic of Cyprus, which were in accordance with the European decision of 6 March 1995. Mr. Denktas¸ even threatened that if the European Union decided to proceed with Cyprus’ application he would not negotiate at all in the future. It was therefore abundantly clear that the other side did not go to the talks with the aim of finding a solution to the problem, but in an attempt to impede Cyprus’ European Union accession process. Any doubts as to the real cause of the failure of the talks to produce results on the substantive aspects of the Cyprus problem were dissolved by the unanimous verdict of the international community, pronounced last 20 August by the President of the Security Council in a statement to the press after the briefing by Mr. Cordovez on the outcome of the talks in Glion. In the statement, our positive attitude and cooperation was commended, whereas the Turkish Cypriot side was blamed for impeding substantive progress by the attempt to bring in preconditions to the table. The same verdict was reached by the European Union, which also rejected any link between the talks and the start of the European Union’s accession negotiations with Cyprus. It is with great regret that once again in addressing the General Assembly I have to report that no progress has been made towards the solution of the Cyprus problem due to the inflexibility of the Turkish side. 3 The result of this deliberate inflexibility is the perpetuation of the illegal Turkish occupation of 37 per cent of the territory of the Republic by Turkish military forces, the artificial forceful separation of the two communities, the colonization of the occupied area by illegal settlers from Turkey, the refugee problem, the usurpation of the Greek Cypriot properties in the occupied area and the continued blunt violation by the Turkish side of General Assembly and Security Council resolutions. I fully share the disappointment of the Security Council at the absence of progress during the Glion talks, despite the interest shown by the international community, and more particularly by those countries that had their representatives in the wings observing the talks. The clear conclusion to be drawn, however, is that more active involvement of the international community, and in particular of those who are in the wings of the talks, is needed if the talks are to produce results. After the end of the talks, Mr. Denktash and Ankara continued to maintain the same negative attitude. There was a barrage of threatening statements against Cyprus, in direct violation of international law, and in particular of the United Nations resolutions on Cyprus, which, inter alia, call for the respect of the sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and unity of the Republic of Cyprus and the withdrawal of all foreign troops. The Turkish side continues to threaten to annex to Turkey the territory of the Republic occupied by Turkish forces if the European Union commences accession negotiations with Cyprus, and to use force against the Republic of Cyprus to prevent the implementation of the agreement to buy and instal in Cyprus the S-300 defensive ground-to-air missile system. Last year we pledged before this body our commitment to do everything in our power to help the Secretary-General of our Organization succeed in his renewed efforts in the search for a lasting solution to the Cyprus problem. I believe that we have honoured our pledge to the full. I wish to reiterate our commitment to continue our constructive attitude, despite our disappointment. However, I wish to make it abundantly clear that we cannot and we will not relinquish our inalienable right to defend our country and to decide about our armaments. As long as the Turkish threat emanating from the continued aggression and occupation of 37 per cent of the territory of the Republic exists, we have not only the right but also the duty to provide for the security of the people of Cyprus. We will not tie our hands behind our backs and allow the Turkish air force to bomb our towns and villages at will — as it has done in the past — without the ability to defend ourselves. If it is again necessary for our forces to take the battlefield, never again will they do so without adequate protection from air attacks by the Turkish air force. During the talks in Glion, in an attempt to assist the peace process, I proposed to Mr. Denktash that both leaders should make a declaration denouncing the use of force as a means of solving the Cyprus problem and should agree to work for a specific programme of reduction of military forces and equipment and a programme for demilitarizing the island and limiting the importation of arms. I believe that my proposal, if accepted by the other side, may open the way for substantive progress towards a comprehensive settlement of the Cyprus question and the restoration of respect for the human rights of the people of Cyprus, which have been grossly violated for the last 23 years. To my Turkish Cypriot compatriots I wish to say this: Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots will live in Cyprus for centuries to come. We must live as friends and as citizens of a bi-communal, bi-zonal federal Republic, respecting each other’s ethnic origins, traditions, culture and religion and the equal political status of our respective communities. We must also be citizens of the European Union. This will give us greater security and prosperity, both for our respective communities and for Cyprus, our country. The question of Cyprus has been on the agenda of the United Nations for too long. A momentum has been created for the solution of the Cyprus problem as a result of the renewed efforts of the United Nations, strongly supported by the international community. Let us not miss this opportunity. It is clear by now where the attention of the Security Council and the international community should be focused. It should use all the means in its power to persuade the Turkish side to abandon its intransigent position. Let me assure this body once again that my Government will continue to work with the Secretary- General in his efforts to find a solution based on a State of Cyprus with a single sovereignty and international personality and a single citizenship, with its independence 4 and territorial integrity safeguarded and comprising two politically equal communities, as described in the relevant Security Council resolutions, in a bi-communal and bi-zonal federation, and that such settlement must exclude union, in whole or in part, with any other country or any form of partition or secession. At this point I wish to express the gratitude of the Government and the people of Cyprus to all those countries that have been assisting and supporting the Secretary- General’s efforts. Before I conclude allow me to refer to a matter which is of great importance to my Government. This is the issue of missing persons in Cyprus. My Government considers this issue a purely humanitarian one whose solution is long overdue. All efforts should be made so that the legitimate rights of the families to be informed in a convincing and conclusive manner about the fate of their loved ones are fully respected by all concerned. This also includes the right to a decent burial for the missing persons who are proved to be dead. In this spirit, I recently had two meetings in Cyprus with the leader of the Turkish Cypriot community, Mr. Rauf Denktash. Certain steps were agreed in the presence of the resident Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General that we believe will contribute towards the desired progress in the efforts to solve this humanitarian problem. The hopes and expectations of all — especially the relatives of the missing persons — centre on the implementation of what was agreed in a true spirit of humanitarian principles and practice. However, the agreement I reached with the Turkish Cypriot leader, Mr. Denktash, will prove of little use if the third member of the Committee on Missing Persons is not appointed. It also is my earnest view that the work of the Committee on Missing Persons will be greatly assisted and expedited if experienced investigators are appointed to assist it in its task. In conclusion, may I reassure the Assembly — and indeed the world community — of my country’s dedication to the principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter, as well as emphasize our determination to spare no effort in working, in concert with other nations, for the prevalence of justice, peace, progress and stability in the volatile region that is our part of the world.  ﻿It gives me pleasure to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Udovenko, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, on his unanimous election to the presidency of the current session of the General Assembly and to wish him success in the discharge of his important responsibilities and duties. May I also thank Mr. Razali, Permanent Representative of Malaysia, the outgoing President, for his able stewardship and for the initiatives he undertook during the past session. The disintegration of the bipolar world structure and the end of the cold war are creating favourable conditions for realizing the goals and principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter. Globalization — vigorous economic integration and interdependence — is becoming a prevailing tendency throughout the world. The fundamental changes that international relations are undergoing, as well as the new challenges and global agendas, demand from the United Nations, its specialized agencies and the Member States new visions and collective efforts and actions commensurate to these realities. I wish to underline that the overwhelming majority of the international community recognizes these changes, is adjusting accordingly and is contributing to this process. It is hardly possible to visualize our common future if we do not jointly solve the socio-economic problems and the questions posed by underdevelopment, unemployment, hunger, poverty, disease, crime natural disasters. Mongolia stands for making the United Nations an effective and efficient organization able to meet the challenges of the new millennium — a political, economic and legal instrument capable of safeguarding the interests of all nations, especially the small ones, on the basis of equality and justice. United Nations reform has been a subject of substantive debate in recent years. It is therefore natural that the reform agenda, in particular the Secretary- General’s report on a programme for reform, is at the centre of attention at this session. Mongolia duly commends the constructive efforts of the Secretary- General to reform the United Nations and overcome its present financial crisis. It thus welcomes the reform programme he submitted to the General Assembly. We believe that thorough consideration should be given to the specific proposals, such as a reasonable reduction of the staff of the Secretariat, allocation of the resulting savings to acceleration of development, establishment of the post of Deputy Secretary-General and creation of a United Nations Development Group so as to improve coordination and management. It is clear that United Nations reform is not an event, but rather a process. We share the view that it is a continuous process, the end result of which should be measured by the increase in the efficiency and effectiveness of the United Nations. Mongolia supports the view that the expansion of the Security Council’s permanent and non-permanent membership should provide equal regional representation and that the Council’s activities should be democratized and made more transparent. Despite the enlargement of the Council membership, the overwhelming majority of Member States will still not be directly represented. Therefore, Mongolia’s proposal to institutionalize the fuller participation of Member States in the Council proceedings, including its formal meetings, is finding increasing support within the Organization. Mongolia appreciates and supports the Secretary- General’s efforts to give priority to socio-economic questions, to invigorate United Nations development activities and enhance international cooperation for development. To this end it is vital that the United Nations and its specialized agencies and international trade and financial institutions intensify their activities in this area and better coordinate their interactions. Today it is universally accepted that sustainable development could be attained if it were approached in a comprehensive manner, and that sustained economic growth is closely linked with social development and environmental protection. It is gratifying to note that the Agenda for Development, adopted this year, has been drawn up precisely in this spirit. We consider it an 19 important document that defines the strategy of international cooperation for development, and we believe that implementation of its provisions is vitally important. The special session of the General Assembly held last June reviewed and assessed the implementation of the Rio summit decisions and outlined future actions. Since Agenda 21, adopted five years ago in Rio de Janeiro, has not been fully realized, the international community should accord greater attention to its complete implementation. Mongolia believes that implementing the important decisions and recommendations of the summit conferences held under United Nations auspices in the early 1990s is crucial for consolidating the positive trends in world social development and redoubling international cooperation for poverty alleviation, human rights protection, food security, the environment, advancement of women, protection of the rights of the child and sustainable human settlement. While fostering international cooperation for development, it is important to accord high priority to addressing the problems of the most disadvantaged developing countries that have unfavourable locations, severe climate and underdeveloped infrastructure. Landlocked developing countries, handicapped by their geographical location and remoteness from world markets, face tremendous obstacles and hardships in their efforts for development and advancement. Reality shows that these countries risk becoming marginalized from the ongoing globalization process in the world economy and international trade. Therefore, it is imperative for the international community to increase its support of and cooperation with these countries, as envisaged in the Agenda for Development. It is gratifying to note that landlocked developing countries are taking concrete steps to develop transit transport cooperation with their transit neighbours. My Government believes that the first-ever North-east Asia Subregional Consultative Meeting on Transit Transportation, held in Ulan Bator this year, has laid the groundwork for the development of such regional cooperation. The notion of and criteria for defining international peace and security are undergoing changes. With the improvement of the international political climate, the dangers posed by nuclear war and the arms race are receding, while prospects for taking concrete steps on practical disarmament are improving. The very concept of security based primarily on the size of armed forces and military alliances or associations has also been changing. It now includes the level of development and progress, wealth and the well-being of peoples, as well as the extent to which human rights and fundamental freedoms are insured. All this must find due reflection in United Nations activities. I am pleased to inform the General Assembly that last July Mongolia ratified the Comprehensive Nuclear- Test-Ban Treaty. Given the paramount significance of the Treaty, Mongolia believes that there is an urgent need to have it enter into force as soon as possible, to implement its provisions strictly and to make operational its international verification system. The international community must take specific measures designed to act on the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice on the obligation to pursue and bring to a conclusion negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament under strict and effective international control. The Government of Mongolia is pleased with the entry into force of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction. Its ratification by the United States of America and a pledge by the Russian Federation — these being the two major Powers possessing substantial arsenals of these weapons of mass destruction — to ratify that Convention are important prerequisites for subsequent successful enforcement. In the past few years the trend to establish nuclear- weapon-free zones has been gaining momentum. Mongolia is pursuing a policy of maintaining the size of its armed forces and its defence expenditures at the lowest possible level and of ensuring its independence and national security primarily by political and diplomatic means. In 1992 Mongolia declared its territory a nuclear- weapon-free zone, and it is now seeking to institutionalize this status internationally. Within this framework, we presented to the last session of the United Nations Disarmament Commission a working paper on the basic principles and elements of the concept of the single-State nuclear-weapon-free zone. I take this opportunity to express our firm support for the proposal to establish nuclear-weapon-free zones in other regions, particularly in Central Asia, and our readiness to work actively for realizing this. 20 It is regrettable that sources of tension and conflict persist in some regions of the world. International peace and security would be strengthened if the parties concerned were to display political will and utmost restraint in resolving their differences by negotiation and other peaceful means. Bearing in mind the importance of strengthening the rule of law in international relations, the international community declared the United Nations Decade of International Law and has taken a series of related measures. It is gratifying to note that on the initiative of Mongolia, the current session is to consider the question of drafting guiding principles for international negotiations. Mongolia believes that the adoption of a document defining guiding principles for international negotiations would not only meet the purposes and principles of the Decade but would also promote the definition of international criteria for conducting international negotiations on the basis of justice and the sovereign equality of States, irrespective of their actual power. Mongolia continues to support the convening in 1998 of a diplomatic conference on the establishment of the international criminal court. We believe that the jurisdiction of the court should cover, inter alia, crimes of aggression and grave environmental crimes. The Government of Mongolia is consistently pursuing a policy of democratization, embracing a market economy and opening up to the world. In the last year the new Government has undertaken a series of very important measures to accelerate political and economic reforms, stabilize the country’s economy and ensure economic growth. To cite an example, we have introduced a zero per cent import tariff and accelerated the pace of privatization. These are important steps to attract foreign direct investment and expand trade with our major partners and the world at large. Full membership in the World Trade Organization (WTO) early this year greatly contributed to the forward- looking development of Mongolia. We seek to cooperate constructively with WTO as the main multilateral trade- rule-setting mechanism. As part of our policy of actively joining global and regional economic integration, Mongolia is striving to pursue a policy aimed at strengthening peace and security and developing cooperation in Asia and the Pacific. We are focusing our attention on North-East Asia in particular and are committed to increasing our cooperation with the countries of the region, both on a bilateral and a multilateral basis. I should like to express our hope that Mongolia’s interaction with the United Nations, its agencies and other international organizations and our bilateral cooperation with Member States will continue to play a valuable part in overcoming underdevelopment, in dealing with the hardships inherent in our transitional period and in meeting pressing socio-economic challenges. In this connection, I wish to express the gratitude of my Government to the donor countries, the United Nations and other international institutions for the support and assistance they have given my country. Mongolia has always viewed the United Nations as an important instrument for safeguarding international peace and security and for promoting social and economic development, and has always supported it. We remain committed to strengthening the United Nations and enhancing its efficiency and effectiveness collectively with all Member States. ﻿I join previous speakers in congratulating you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the fifty-second session of the General Assembly. My delegation is satisfied that your vast experience in international affairs and your proven diplomatic skills will guide the work of this session to a successful conclusion. I wish to assure you of my delegation’s full support and cooperation in the execution of the duties of your office. I also wish to express my delegation’s gratitude and congratulations to your predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia, who presided over our Assembly during the fifty-first session with great vigour, skill and resolve. Having had the honour of serving as a Vice-President of that session, I am particularly appreciative of his noteworthy contributions. This is my first opportunity in this Assembly to address and congratulate our new Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan. He is, of course, no stranger to any of us, having faithfully served this Organization for so many years. We are confident that he has the vision, ability and determination to lead the United Nations as it prepares to meet the challenges of the new millennium. I wish to assure the Secretary-General of the continued support and cooperation of the Government of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas. On behalf of the Government and people of the Bahamas, I also wish to pay tribute to our former Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. The Bahamas particularly wishes to recall and salute his tireless efforts in seeking to restore financial stability to our Organization. Today, I reiterate the Bahamas’ solemn pledge that as we lead our nation into a new millennium the primary focus of our efforts will be directed towards improving the delivery of health care, education and skills training, a reduction in the level of serious crime and unemployment, and the eradication of poverty and poor housing. We are committed to achieving the full empowerment of women and equality among the sexes as we work toward the evolution of a society in which our children will live with hope, a society where there is opportunity for all, where there is respect for human rights, fundamental values and the rule of law. Our efforts on behalf of the Bahamian people also represent our contribution towards the collective efforts which Member States of the United Nations must make to ensure a safe, stable and productive global society so that progress, peace and development can be achieved for all the people represented here. We are therefore committed to assisting in the much needed reform of this world body, so as to enable us to achieve these goals. One of the greatest threats to quality of life and to productive development worldwide is criminal behaviour. My Government has set as one of its highest priorities the comprehensive reduction and prevention of crime, in all its forms, including drug-trafficking, money-laundering and illegal trafficking in firearms, and, indeed, in human beings. Those who engage in such menacing activities respect no borders. We therefore implore all Member States, irrespective of size or might, to recognize that the most effective means of reducing crime at the national and international levels is through joint and collaborative efforts. The Government of the Bahamas supports the strengthening of the international legal order against crime. We also hope that the special session on the question of drugs in 1998 will provide new impetus and resolve to combat this particular menace to all of our societies. My Government reiterates its call to urgently address the growing problem of the traffic in small arms. The Bahamas, neither a manufacturer nor a vendor of arms, urges those countries involved in the production and sale of arms to impose stringent control measures and provide assistance to vulnerable States to reduce the threat of the traffic in arms. Another concern of the world’s nations is the protection of the environment. The Bahamas recognizes and appreciates that conservation and enhancement of the environment are critically important to the well-being of our people, and especially that of future generations. Consequently, our national planning process incorporates community environmental education and the regular monitoring and enforcement of laws for the protection of natural resources and the conservation of habitats. Indeed, during the course of this year, the Government of the Bahamas enacted legislation to protect our physical landscape and prevent the destruction of certain 13 indigenous trees. The expansion of green and open spaces for the benefit of the general population is another key pillar in our environmental policy. Tourism is the leading industry in the Bahamas and the fastest growing industry in the world. We are all aware, however, that the development of tourism does not always take place in harmony with environmental protection and conservation. Mindful of this fact, the Bahamas, along with its regional partners, seeks to develop strategies, policies and procedures which will ensure that the continued development of the industry is consistent with standards of environmental sustainability. In this vein, the Caribbean Community has adopted a regional position against the transportation of hazardous and radioactive substances through the Caribbean Sea, a concern previously voiced in this forum. While the concept of sustainable development remains subject to further definition, my Government believes that poverty reduction and social development can and must be achieved in concert with environmental integrity, economic stability and good health. The proper integration of developing economies into the rapidly advancing globalization of world trade will, we believe, mark the measure of our success in these areas. Regrettably, developments over the past decade have not always met expectations. In spite of the technological revolution of the last decade and the rapid increase in worldwide commerce, the benefits of the globalization of the world’s economy have not been evenly distributed. Developing countries continue to be marginalized even as the world’s market economy grows at an extraordinary pace. Globalization can offer great opportunities, but only if it is managed carefully and with more concern for equity, morality and indeed compassion. An enabling environment must be created for all to take full advantage of the new opportunities created by globalization. The peculiar vulnerability of small islands — their susceptibility to natural disasters, their economy’s dependence on primary products, their small human and material resource base — means that small island States have much more at stake in achieving sustainable development. The Bahamas, therefore, attaches great importance to the 1999 review of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, and calls for the mobilization of external resources for its further implementation. We are also pleased to note that consideration is being given by the United Nations to the possible development of a vulnerability index. We welcome the proposed convening of an expert group meeting later this year to review various proposals, and look forward to the completion of the technical study now in progress. The development of a mechanism such as the vulnerability index will help to alleviate a concern which the Bahamas has repeatedly expressed in this assembly regarding the persistent use of per capita gross national product as the major measurement of wealth. It is our view that this criterion is an inadequate measurement of development and is often inconsistent with the principles of equity. The vulnerability of small island States is painfully demonstrated in the unfolding natural disaster on the Caribbean island of Montserrat, where volcanic activity has forever changed the physical, sociological and psychological landscape. Indeed, the viability of the island to provide a base for the livelihood and development of the people of Montserrat is yet to be determined. We, the Government and people of the Bahamas, wish to express our solidarity with, and pledge our continued support to, the people of Montserrat during this particularly difficult time. We are similarly conscious of the fact that natural disasters affect virtually all the Member States of this Organization, large and small, developed and developing. In recent times, typhoons in South-East Asia, floods in Eastern and Central Europe and in the central states and provinces of the United States and Canada, and earthquakes in South America, and most recently in Italy and Indonesia, have wreaked untold suffering on millions of people. As we look towards the twenty-first century, we must assess how best this Organization can prepare itself during the next three years to enter into this new era in human history. Since becoming a Member of the United Nations in 1973, the Commonwealth of the Bahamas has at successive sessions of the Assembly reaffirmed the importance of the United Nations and has conveyed its commitment to work with other Member States in pursuit of the principles and objectives of the Charter. In this connection, we congratulate the Secretary- General on the important reform proposals which he has 14 presented, and we stand ready to participate in their comprehensive and constructive review during this session. It is the view of my delegation that reform should have as its end result an improved and more efficient Organization, fully able to meet the demands of the Members which it serves. At the same time, reform would be meaningless if the Organization were not to have a stable financial basis on which to carry out its functions. It is imperative, therefore, that we find a way to overcome the myriad obstacles that have eluded resolution to date in areas such as the reform of the Security Council and the financial situation of the United Nations. The Bahamas strongly urges all Member States to commit themselves to resolution of the question of Security Council reform at this fifty-second session of the General Assembly. The Bahamas supports the need to expand the Council’s membership in both categories. This expansion must, however, pay due regard to the principles of equal representation, the reflection of the universal character of the Organization and the need to correct existing imbalances in the composition of the Council. In a world confronted daily by press reports on the tragedies of failed efforts to preserve peace between nations — and indeed, between different ethnic and/or religious groups within nations — it is frequently easy to ignore the successes being achieved by the Organization. My Government welcomes the positive work being done by the United Nations in the maintenance of international peace and security. The fact that increasing numbers of countries are willing to cooperate with the United Nations is an indication of how important it is for the Organization to continue the implementation of its mandate in this area. We note the success stories in areas such as Central America and also in Haiti, where the mandate of the Support Mission has recently been extended. It has always been the contention of the Bahamas Government that too early a withdrawal from Haiti had the potential of derailing the hard-earned gains made in that country. The continuing and recently escalating arrival of many Haitian migrants in the Bahamas is a sobering reminder that a setback in Haiti’s difficult march towards political and economic stability could well be destabilizing. The Government applauds the international community in its successful negotiation of a treaty to ban anti-personnel landmines. Bahamas will sign the treaty and ratify it as soon as possible, and hopes that the Convention will receive full support, particularly from the developed countries of the world. The Bahamas fulfilled its promise made last year to sign the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test- Ban Treaty, and pledges early ratification, in keeping with its commitment to save succeeding generations from the scourge of nuclear war. These, along with other measures, bring us one step closer to the total elimination of weapons of mass destruction. The Bahamas is of the view that the United Nations should serve as a pillar of support for the aspirations of its Member States and as a beacon of hope for the destitute of the world. Let us therefore resolve to have this fifty-second session of the General Assembly remembered as a decisive turning point in the work of the Organization. It should be remembered as a session where Member States were able to attain a greater level of understanding, trust, cooperation and a sense of purpose to empower them to deal with the problems affecting the international community.  ﻿On behalf of the Government and people of Antigua and Barbuda, I would like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to preside over this fifty-second session of the General Assembly. You are well known to many of the envoys to the United Nations, and we feel confident that under your guidance we will have a productive session. I likewise wish to express my country’s recognition to the Permanent Representative of Malaysia, for the manner in which he conducted the work of the fifty-first session. I also pay tribute to the Secretary-General, who is entrusted with the advancement of this Organization at such a critical time in its history. One cannot walk through the edifices of the United Nations without being asked to comment on the reform process and the value of the number of conferences that the Organization has staged. The conferences of this decade have certainly had an impact on our understanding of certain concepts, practices and generationally imparted beliefs. Though we have taken many decisions, implementation has proved to be difficult, and a fundamental aspect of the reason or reasons for this is that the United Nations needs to be reformed, and Governments need to zealously renew their commitments to its existence and continued advancement. The Secretary-General’s report is most welcome, and there are many points on which my country is in agreement and others on which we think continued discussion and debate are needed. Peace, security and disarmament are vital to a safe and secure planet, and the countless individuals who live daily in constant fear — whether because of terrorists, hatred between ethnic groups, internecine warfare or religious persecution — gives us much concern. The Organization must have trained and equipped forces at all times, and the decision of a group of Member States to participate in the establishment of a standby high- readiness brigade is most encouraging. Additionally, there is a need for the demobilization of paramilitary groups, for demining and for an intensification of peacemaking, peacekeeping and peace-building. Subsequently, the problems associated with financing peace operations need to be addressed in a meaningful manner. Antigua and Barbuda strongly supports the concept of results-based budgeting and endorses the proposal to have the Secretary-General and the representatives of Member States enter into a dialogue aimed at shifting the United Nations programme budget from a system of input accounting to one of results-based accountability. Likewise, my country welcomes the reforms already put in place in the Secretariat, through which field operations have been considerably expanded, as a result of cooperation between the Department of Political Affairs, the Department of Peacekeeping Operations, the Department of Humanitarian Affairs and other relevant departments. We are anxiously looking forward to June of next year, when the diplomatic conference on the need to establish an international criminal court will convene. This undertaking is long overdue, and Antigua and Barbuda has been working with neighbouring countries to thwart the dangers of increased international crime, which is so active in this hemisphere. Of particular concern is the need for greater coordination among nations if the blight of narcotics is to be meaningfully tackled. Strong and determined efforts within certain countries will be seriously undermined if there is not a united global approach to manifestations and practices which will destroy not only the fabric of our societies but the lives of countless individuals. The most talked-about aspect of reform, however, is the “Question of equitable representation on and increase in the membership of the Security Council and related matters”. Numerous proposals on the question have been advanced, some adding more confusion to the existing deliberations. As such, Antigua and Barbuda wishes to reiterate its declared position that any expansion should include developing countries, and that both the Group of African States and the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States should be represented. We would similarly like to see certain restrictions placed on the use of the veto. We understand that all efforts at restructuring and reform in the United Nations, however, should be focused on economic growth and development. In addition, my country is calling for a 7 reversal in the diminishing role of the General Assembly. The accountability of the Security Council to the General Assembly must be re-emphasized, and the General Assembly should more actively assert its role in the maintenance of international peace and security, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 377 (V) of 3 November 1950, entitled “Uniting for peace”. The buzzword that we are constantly hearing is “globalization”. Those of us from small developing countries would rather have the emphasis placed on poverty alleviation, but the present-day reality incorporates the belief that the emphasized process of globalization and economic integration is unavoidable. There are new techniques of production and new forms of organization which have given flexibility to the location of industrial activities and have reduced the share of wages in production costs. In many of our democratic societies throughout the world, where sacrifices have been made to reduce unemployment, Governments are faced with the daunting and even frightening reality that labour is becoming a dispensable commodity. The International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the World Trade Organization all are promoting the emergence of a global market. The small countries of the Caribbean are forced to adapt, and our businessmen must accept the reality that the concept of protected markets is fast disappearing. The multilateral financial institutions which provide resources to developing countries at concessional rates continue to use the gross national product as a basis for judging our economic wherewithal. Antigua and Barbuda is deemed to be middle-income, but the reality of my country’s various vulnerabilities causes our people and those of other Caribbean countries to bow to the flattery and highlight the unjustness of this means of measurement. Our sister island of Montserrat has recently had a series of severe volcanic eruptions which have caused the inhabitants much pain and anguish, and Antigua and Barbuda, along with other Caribbean Community countries, has endeavoured to render assistance. As a result, the population of Antigua and Barbuda has increased by some 5 percent, which means that the resources of Government for housing, health, education and all other services are strained. Our citizens have, however, rendered much support, and Antigua and Barbuda will do all in its power to help alleviate the plight of our brothers and sisters from that lovely but now unsafe island. We strongly support the recommendation of the Committee of 24 that the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the United Nations Development Programme should move swiftly to assist in alleviating the plight of the sturdy but beleaguered population of the Emerald Isle of the Caribbean. There are other dangerous volcanoes in the Caribbean, and one is presently forming undersea in the vicinity of Grenada. In 1974 Antigua and Barbuda experienced an earthquake which measured 7.8 on the Richter scale and which caused considerable destruction. In 1995 Hurricane Luis unleashed its fury on our country for 48 hours and was declared to have been the worst storm of the century. Indeed, a single hurricane can set back our development some 10 years. Yet the gross national product continues to be used to measure our economic performance, resulting in the absurd distortion of Antigua and Barbuda’s being deemed more developed than Mexico or Brazil. We are pleased to read that at the 1995 Copenhagen World Summit for Social Development, the conclusion was reached that an economic system has no intrinsic value. It has to be assessed in relation to the betterment of the human condition. As such, a good economic system should of necessity provide opportunities for sufficient income to all members of the society; generate enough resources to enable public institutions to fulfil their responsibilities and promote the common good; and permit, in addition to the government, participation by citizens and other public and private actors in the decision-making process. To this end, the Government of Antigua and Barbuda is presently holding meetings in various forums to discuss precisely the realities of globalization and the achievement of a single market within the Caribbean Community. In June of this year a special session of the General Assembly was held on the overall review and appraisal of the implementation of Agenda 21. Though there was disappointment at the outcome due to the inability of countries to coalesce around a common position or common commitments, there was the clear recognition that the threat to the global commons remains a profound reality. There is continued overexploitation and degradation of what has been bequeathed to mankind, whether in regard to overfishing, overgrazing, excessive destruction of forests, or air and water pollution. We have collectively failed to capitalize on the promise and accomplishments of the 1992 Rio Conference. Nine out of ten people in both the developed and developing world have no idea what the term “sustainable development” means and how it affects them. Nine out of 8 ten also have little appreciation of why mutual recognition and mutual action are necessary. People have not been made partners in the process of sustainable development, and Governments should do more to make them so by education via the mass media, in the schools, in public debate and in public presentations. The industrialized countries must take the lead in changing their patterns of production and consumption to save the global environment and assist developing countries such as mine in our effort to meet our peoples’ basic needs, to eradicate poverty and achieve economic growth. During the special session in June, Caribbean newspapers reported that every Caribbean representative zeroed in on the “poverty issue”. To eradicate poverty and achieve economic growth is not an easy task and has been further compounded by the fact that official development assistance, a crucial part of the Rio agreements, has fallen from 0.33 per cent in 1992 to 0.27 per cent in 1995. This is well below the agreed and accepted target of 0.7 per cent of the gross national product of the industrialized countries pledged to development assistance. The precipitous fall in official development assistance has shifted the burden for sustainable development unfairly to developing countries, destroying in the process the equitable balance which was reached at that very important Conference. Private capital and foreign direct investment, once touted as the panacea for sustainable development in developing countries, have shown only selective benefits to some countries and have bypassed the vast majority. A combination of private capital flows, foreign direct investment and debt relief as part of an overall financial package may be a solution. In recognizing that an integrated approach to sustainable development is necessary, since political, economic, social and environmental issues are closely interlinked and intertwined, we cannot overlook the integral role that women can and should play in the quest for sustainable development. In Rio, women were considered a major group whose involvement was necessary to receive the sought-after goals. Mainstreaming women’s concerns and participation in the planning, implementation and monitoring of all development and management of environmental programmes to ensure that women benefit is necessary for sustainable development. In this regard, we call on the multilateral and bilateral donors to increase their support for women’s organizations in countries such as mine to enable them to play an active role in all aspects of the developmental process. There is, however, the fact that we must stress repeatedly: the need to reduce the speed of the globalization thrust. Dominant Governments and institutions are setting deadlines and establishing agendas with such severe demands that most other actors find them impossible to follow. The alternative to participation, as it now stands, is marginalization. If all countries are required to fully participate, then there is a clear need for selective linking processes with reference to both national circumstances and national cultures. This brings me to the vexing question of bananas. The undoing of the Lomé trade agreement and the injury which this hostile act will inflict on small, banana- exporting countries of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States, of which Antigua and Barbuda is a member, is tantamount to an act of war. Small, peace- loving States, causing no harm to any other State under the terms of the Lomé agreement, have found themselves yoked by the recent World Trade Organization ruling. Without some form of protection, the banana industry in the States of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) would collapse, leading to severe social dislocation which would ultimately manifest itself in political catastrophe. Be reminded that on more than one occasion, the President of the United States has cautioned that in this galloping global economy, small States cannot be trampled upon by their large neighbours. When my country chose to host in May of this year the regional seminar of the Committee of 24, better known as the Special Committee on Decolonization, it was because we knew that the Caribbean has many other obstacles to overcome in the emerging history of our region and the global community. Highlighted at the meeting was the principled position of the Special Committee that the sustained economic growth and social advancement of the Non-Self-Governing Territories is an essential prerequisite of the implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples. Of necessity, particular attention has to be given to the environment, natural disaster mitigation, public health, education, economic self- sufficiency, the prevention of crime and illicit drug trafficking. The Non-Self-Governing Territories of the Caribbean have the same problems as the independent countries in regard to narcotics. There is a multidimensional thrust upon our entities, as there is the challenge to governability by non-State actors, the drug operators. Caribbean countries additionally have to contend with 9 extraterritoriality and other forms of sovereignty challenges from other States, primarily because of conflicting interests and because the Caribbean States are small and lack significant power. The countries of CARICOM are, however, endeavouring to improve most aspects of their existence, and new ground in the integration arrangement has been broken. Haiti has joined the ranks of CARICOM, a development which is considered to be of immense significance, and we wish to applaud the decision to have the United Nations Mission in Haiti extended. There has been further movement towards the CARICOM single market and economy. When Protocol II is ratified, the ground will be laid for the free movement of factors of production among countries which have agreed to be bound by its provisions. A plan is being developed for the sustainability of both tourist and airline industries in the region. Approval was given to a comprehensive human resource development plan for the specific purpose of building a more creative and productive workforce in the Caribbean. Indeed, the countries of CARICOM are endeavouring to overcome the major legacy of colonialism: being placed on the periphery of the industrialized world. As a collective body seeking the betterment of mankind, the countries which form the United Nations need to recognize that human advancement requires managing markets as well as liberating them. Clearly, unbridled markets tend to produce a race to the bottom, manifested through a global search for the location with the weakest regulatory, environmental, social and labour standards. What is required is for rich and poor countries to have a commonality of purpose that ensures a path of sustainable development. Year after year my country pleads for genuine acceptance of the principle of multilateralism, yet what is projected under the banner is of a selective nature projected by and through the powerful and the dominant. Together we must find a way towards a global regime that reduces emissions of greenhouse gases, accepting the necessity of well-off nations to transfer the technology to make this possible rather than viewing this shift as another opportunity for private industry to profit. It is sad that competitiveness can be pushed in a direction which handicaps and retards human development. State socialism failed, and in the process deprived hundreds of millions of individuals of both liberty and prosperity. Market forces, taken to the extreme, yield poorly distributed rates of growth, plunder the natural environment and are most devastating in regard to the wreckage of humans. The States of the developing world are not just emerging markets, they are human societies. Markets must be our servant, not our master. Clearly, the reality of commerce is global, but the paths to human development have historically been proven to be local. In approaching the twenty-first century, the Government of the twin island States of Antigua and Barbuda has decided that it should focus on human capital and its development rather than focusing narrowly on the economic question. There will be a continuance of the policy of carrying out intense investigations and feasibility studies to decide where to concentrate limited resources. In addition, even though the Government is divesting itself of some of its holdings and encouraging greater private investment in vital services and commodities, there are some areas, particularly those surrounding technology, in which the Government has to remain directly involved and catalytic; it will continue with its practice of seeking consensus on determining key industries and activities crucial and critical for development. We will continue to take pride in and to cherish the United Nations, as we recognize its capacity for achievements in areas beyond the reach of national or regional authorities. Now the nations which comprise this body must redouble their collective commitment for translating vision into reality. That is why it is essential to have international cooperation for development in the forefront of our activities. The United Nations is still our greatest hope for peace, development and social justice.  ﻿I would like to offer Foreign Minister Udovenko of Ukraine my warmest congratulations on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session. His skill and experience will serve us well in directing the vital work to be undertaken at this session. Ireland, and you, Ambassador Campbell as Vice-President of the General Assembly, will spare no effort in assisting the President in the important tasks of his office. I also wish to thank Ambassador Razali Ismail for the energy and commitment he devoted to guiding the Assembly at its last session. My colleague Foreign Minister Poos of Luxembourg, speaking on behalf of the European Union, set out clearly in his speech to the Assembly the agenda for action by the United Nations and its Member States in facing the challenges of the world today. Ireland associates itself fully with his remarks. This session is a crucial one for the United Nations. Decisions must be taken to make the United Nations more effective in meeting its real objectives and priorities in future years. The Secretary-General has presented us with a considered, balanced and substantial package of proposals for United Nations reform. This package marks a turning point in the reform and revitalization process. The Secretary-General has recognized that the future of the United Nations can be secured only by a clearer focus and better coordination of effort, expertise and resources on the key priorities — real peace and security, sustainable development, equitable economic and social progress, humanitarian action and, underlying all of these, the safeguarding of universal human rights. Ireland welcomes in particular the proposals for a more concerted effort in the economic and social development sector. Together with our European Union partners, we have been developing our own contribution in this area. Our aim is a more effective and coherent United Nations effort which would finally make real inroads, particularly in the least developed countries, in the fight against poverty and underdevelopment. We welcome the intention of the Secretary-General to channel the resources saved in this exercise to development programmes of the Organization. I know that some will feel that the proposals do not go far enough in one direction, and others in another. It is not possible to accommodate fully all concerns. But there is enough in these proposals to make the start on reform that we have all been looking for. I therefore earnestly appeal to all Member States to join this broad consensus of support. We should also, at this session, work to achieve a solution to the difficult questions of the financing of the United Nations and of the enlargement and working methods of the Security Council. Ireland, my country, has declared its candidacy for the Security Council in the year 2000. We shall do everything possible to earn support for our candidacy. 24 Living through times of dramatic change is rarely easy. Globalization and liberalization of the international economy have brought significant benefits to many countries and are changing the shape of our world. Some developing countries have benefited from these processes and made significant economic and social strides. Others, especially in sub-Saharan Africa, have become even more marginalized from the world economy, and this is unacceptable. Ireland has been increasing its official-development- assistance budget over a number of years. My Government is committed to making steady progress towards achieving the United Nations target of 0.7 per cent in our development-cooperation assistance. Specifically, we are committed to having Irish aid reach 0.45 per cent of gross national product by 2002. Some critics contend that development cooperation has not succeeded. The best response to this is to point to what it has already achieved. In regard to the most fundamental of all human rights, life expectancy around the world has increased by a third in the past three decades; infant mortality has been cut in half. These are not small achievements. In our present globalized and increasingly interdependent world economy, we need to seek a new partnership between developed and developing countries to address those issues which affect the entire international community. In this the United Nations has an indispensable role to play, and we pledge our full support to assist the Secretary-General in his task. In June 1998 the General Assembly will meet in special session to address the drugs issue, both at the national and international levels. I had the honour, as Minister of Justice and in the role of President of the Council of Ministers of the European Union, to address the General Assembly on this question in 1990. The Assembly has regularly considered further action to deal with this menace. But the action that has been taken so far has clearly been inadequate. We must redouble our efforts. Drugs are an international cancer which threaten the lives of the present and future generations, particularly our young. For all our people, they pose a real threat to the very fabric of society. Last week saw the conclusion of negotiations in Oslo on a global Convention banning landmines, without reservation, without exception and for all time. This major step forward will be particularly welcomed by those countries which have suffered so much as a result of the use of these barbaric devices. Those countries not present there and not yet ready to sign in December must take account of the widespread international support for this agreement. We appeal to them to help ensure the maximum degree of adherence to the Convention. The international community must now work together with ever greater determination to provide for the clearing of mines already placed and for the care and rehabilitation, as well as the social and economic reintegration, of mine victims. In 1961, when the then-Foreign Minister of Ireland, Mr. Frank Aiken, introduced a resolution at the sixteenth session of the General Assembly calling for the conclusion of an international agreement that would prevent the spread of nuclear weapons, he launched a process which the Irish Government firmly believed would eventually lead to total nuclear disarmament. Then as now, our conviction was that genuine international peace and security can never be achieved as long as nuclear weapons remain part of the armouries of States. We welcome the achievements of recent years, whether bilateral or multilateral: the START Treaties, the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, the global ban outlawing chemical weapons and present efforts to strengthen the ban on biological and toxin weapons. These show that with the necessary will progress is possible. Now is the time for serious consideration of an integrated approach, encompassing both bilateral and multilateral negotiations, culminating in an international agreement on a total ban on nuclear weapons. We must inject a real sense of urgency into translating the goal of the ultimate elimination of nuclear weapons into a more concrete reality. My plea is for reflection on the part of all; for compromise and for cooperation, and for a flexible rather than a dogmatic approach. I believe that we can offer no better vision, courage and leadership in the service of peace than to take up this challenge. While we can look forward one day to a world free of nuclear weapons, no time should be lost in agreeing how the peaceful uses of nuclear energy can best be managed. We in Ireland live in close proximity to a nuclear-fuel reprocessing plant which poses a considerable threat to us because of the ever-present risk of a major accident at the plant. In many countries 25 today, nuclear energy is viewed with alarm and apprehension. Public resistance has persuaded some Governments to renounce the nuclear option because the benefits of nuclear energy have failed to convince a sceptical and questioning public. The impact of accidents involving nuclear-power reactors can cross international frontiers. The legitimate interests of States affected by such accidents demand that high priority be given to strengthening nuclear safety worldwide. Reactor safety and the closure of sub-standard reactors represent for my Government fundamental necessities that nuclear-energy States must meet. It is simply unacceptable that poor management of radioactive waste and spent fuel should threaten the health and safety of populations or cause serious long- term damage to the environment of States which have no nuclear programmes. The recent Joint Convention dealing with these matters will hopefully bring about improvements. However, much more needs to be done through international cooperation to allay the deep misgivings of a concerned public. Transport of nuclear materials and radioactive waste raises the most serious and justifiable fears. We must insist that this, along with all other nuclear activities, be carried out in strict accordance with the highest international standards of safety and security. Furthermore, the entirely legitimate sensitivities of transit countries affected by such movements must be recognized. As we approach next year's celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we must recognize that we have fallen short in implementing the goals and aspirations of the Declaration. While recognizing that none of us has grounds for complacency in this regard, it is a reality that the human rights situation in certain countries remains of particular concern to the international community. The European Union, in its memorandum to the General Assembly, has listed the areas of particular concern to us, including the human rights situation in Myanmar, East Timor, Nigeria and Afghanistan, to name but a few. We must all work together — Governments and non-governmental organizations and civil society generally — in dialogue and partnership to ensure that the human rights principles enshrined in the Charter and the Universal Declaration are respected to the full. The current reforms proposed by the Secretary- General, in particular his decision to consolidate the two existing human rights offices into a single office of High Commissioner for Human Rights, are to be welcomed. They provide a clear opportunity to strengthen significantly the human rights programme of the United Nations by fully integrating human rights issues across the full range of United Nations activities. It is a cause of great pride to the Government and the people of Ireland that the Secretary-General has chosen Mrs. Mary Robinson, the former President of Ireland, as the new High Commissioner. I wish to turn now to an area of United Nations activity which is of particular concern and interest to my country — that of peacekeeping. Ireland has a proud record of service in almost every major United Nations peacekeeping operation. We will continue this role, including our contribution of personnel from the Irish police force — the Garda Siochána — to the new and important role for civilian police in United Nations peacekeeping operations. Our peacekeepers have at times paid a heavy price: some 75 Irish peacekeepers have died in the service of United Nations peacekeeping. Our support for the role of the United Nations in its peacekeeping role has not wavered. But it is tempered by the sober recognition that, despite many significant successes in past decades, United Nations peacekeeping, particularly in recent times, has not always been effective. We must become better at averting conflicts, through more vigorous preventive diplomacy and action in dealing with the roots of conflict. When we are forced to intervene, our response must be prompt and better informed through effective early warning systems. Our tasks and objectives must be better defined, both as regards keeping the peace and making the peace. The full support, political and material, of the Member States is essential if they are to be achieved effectively. Too often the United Nations has been asked, to its cost, to keep the peace indefinitely in conflict areas, without any corresponding efforts by the parties to the conflict to make peace. All Member States of this Organization have a responsibility to ensure continuous and honest efforts to make the peace permanent. The changing international situation of the last decade has seen the emergence of new sources of 26 conflict and tension. Old ethnic rivalries and hatreds have resurfaced, leading to new local and regional conflicts. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, the killing has stopped, but progress in building the peace has been painfully slow. In the Middle East, too, moving the peace process forward is proving enormously more difficult than could have been imagined. We call on all parties to live up to their responsibilities and put the process back on track. In Cyprus, in the Great Lakes region of Africa and in many other places, the serious efforts of the international community to secure lasting peace are making very slow headway. In the island of Ireland, we face the task of forging reconciliation and, leaving behind us the bitterness of history, ensuring that the root causes of the threat to peace are addressed effectively. Successive Irish Foreign Ministers have addressed this Assembly over the years and informed representatives of the efforts being made to resolve the conflict in Northern Ireland and bring about a lasting peaceful settlement. They have brought news of significant advances, from the launching of the intergovernmental approach by Ireland and Britain in 1980 and the signing of the Anglo-Irish Agreement in 1985, to the formulation of the Joint Declaration in 1993 and the publication of the Joint Framework document in 1995. I now bring to the Assembly the joyous news that yesterday in Belfast we succeeded in launching substantial and historic all-party talks in which the future of a peaceful and agreed Ireland is to be mapped out. What is notable about all of these developments — each an important foundation stone in the current peace process — is that they were undertaken in partnership between the Irish and British Governments. Progress has been driven by our two Governments, united in the quest for peace and a lasting and just settlement. That progress has been defined and directed by the concept of the “totality of relationships”, with which our two islands are intertwined and which bears directly on the question of Northern Ireland. Northern Ireland represents the interface between the respective traditions and future aspirations of both Ireland and Britain. Only in the totality of our relations can we come to terms with our differing visions of the past and reconcile our hopes for the future. The notion of the “totality of relationships” has been reinforced recently by profound shifts in political and social attitudes in both Ireland and Britain. The character of these shifts has much in common in that they serve to illustrate the commonality that the peoples of Ireland and Britain share. Ireland has been undergoing a dramatic and invigorating process of renewal. This has been most evident in our economic performance, but it is evident too in our social and cultural life. I have a deep sense that it has been encouraged and shaped by our involvement in the evolution of Europe and the development of our multilateral relations through the United Nations itself. This renewal has been marked by inspiration about what can be done and by what is needed pragmatically to achieve what we set out to do. In Britain, there has been a dramatic development which redefines and reshapes the nature of its political union. And we too detect that same impulse to reinvigorate the institutions of the state, to undertake a reappraisal and a renewal as the new millennium approaches. I believe that this sense of change in both islands, this quickening pace, will be a very important factor as both Governments and all the parties to the negotiations in Northern Ireland take the peace process forward. It will, I believe, impart an urgency and focus to the deliberations. More importantly, it means that those who form part of the talks process have the opportunity to shape their future rather than surrender through indifference or apathy to the inexorability of change. For we live in a time which offers an invitation to shape our common future. That invitation is open to all those with the courage and vision to participate in the talks process, which seeks to reshape the relations which are central to the solution we seek — relations between the two communities in Northern Ireland, relations between the North and the South of our island, and relations between Ireland and Britain. The efforts of both Governments to construct the complex structures on which to base a peace process were undertaken with the very clear acknowledgment that ultimately it was there to serve all the parties most directly involved in the conflict and, through them, the wider community. As the leader of the Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP), John Hume, so clearly recognized, it had to be an inclusive peace process if it was to be a lasting one. 27 Creating the conditions for this inclusive process was a difficult task in the face of continued violence by paramilitaries on both sides — violence which has been ongoing for over 25 years; violence which threatened to limit the boundaries of a whole generation to suspicion, mutual mistrust and division; violence which still seeks to threaten and disrupt our efforts to build a lasting peace. The task of creating an inclusive peace process required us to call on our friends in the international community. I want to acknowledge those friends, particularly in the European Union, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and, most important, in the United States. The partnership between Ireland and Britain has been consistently encouraged and assisted by the United States under the leadership of President Clinton and with the backing of friends and supporters in the United States Congress. In particular, President Clinton offered his personal support and active engagement in the search for peace. The President undertook to share the risks for peace which were being taken by both Governments. And in doing so, he added significantly to the momentum which secured the ceasefire in 1994 and re-established it in July of this year. The United States has been a resource offered generously in the name of peace. I want to acknowledge the invaluable role played by Senator George Mitchell in chairing the multi-party talks in Belfast. And I also want to express my Government's appreciation for the cooperation and assistance provided by the Governments of Finland and Canada, particularly by making available as co-chairmen of the talks former Prime Minister Harri Holkeri and General John de Chastelain. They have shown unfailing forbearance and unremitting commitment to this delicate and complex process. With this help, and with the resolve of both Governments to ensure that an unequivocal ceasefire was a necessary condition for involvement in the talks process, another ceasefire was, as I said earlier, established in July this year. Because the ceasefire has been re-established, all parties to the problem of Northern Ireland have now been invited to join the talks process in Belfast and to begin the task of shaping our respective interwoven futures. We have, in the course of the Anglo-Irish peace process, sought to accomplish the purpose for which this Assembly was established — to replace mistrust and violent confrontation with dialogue, negotiation and agreement between all the parties to conflict. We do not underestimate the difficulties that lie ahead. As the history of the United Nations itself has shown, major conflicts have, for the most part, been avoided. However, the resolution of localized conflicts has proven elusive and problematic. The principles, purpose and practice of this Assembly and the United Nations itself were formed to replace conflict — of whatever scale — with peace through dialogue. In our approach to Northern Ireland, we have been guided by the same impulse to create principles, purposes and practices which will replace the method and means of sectarian hatred and intercommunal violence. We have made it clear that in our talks, all issues are on the table, that no outcome is ruled out of bounds for discussion or is predetermined. We have constructed a process and rules of procedure by which the parties can discuss, refine and eventually agree on the structures which will embrace the totality of relations on the two islands and which command the consent of both unionists and nationalists in Ireland. We have established as an integral part of the dialogue that we recognize the rights and wishes of the unionist community in the same way as we insist that parity of esteem for Nationalists is a necessary and just component of any eventual settlement. We have set out our view that the resolution of the issue of the decommissioning of arms is an indispensable part of the process of negotiation. We have emphatically declared, in our insistence on adherence to the Mitchell principles of democracy and non-violence, that only those committed to democratic and exclusively peaceful means of resolving political issues and those who renounce force or the threat of force to influence the outcome of the negotiations can be a party to the talks process. We have embraced as a founding principle in the current talks process and its eventual outcome that any agreement must command sufficient consensus between both sets of participants. We have accepted that the agreement reached will be put to the people of Ireland, North and South, for their approval. Both Governments have set a target to conclude these talks by next May and present proposals to the people of Ireland, North and South, in parallel 28 referendums. I believe that this target is necessarily ambitious and realistically achievable. We may well have setbacks in the interim. We certainly have difficult issues to confront and compromises to make which will require courage and vision. But both Governments — and I believe the parties currently in the talks process — are collectively determined that this process will be pursued, that there will be no going back, and that the future we seek of harmonious relations and an honourable and comprehensive agreement will be secured and that lasting peace will be brought to our island.  ﻿I sincerely congratulate the Foreign Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko, on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly, a most crucial task which I trust he will execute in a most productive and creative manner. Let me also record my admiration and praise for the way in which his predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail, performed his demanding mission during the whole of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. He laid a unique foundation on the basis of which we must now make advances towards a better United Nations. I refer to the statement made yesterday by the Foreign Minister of Luxembourg on behalf of all 20 members of the European Union; my Government fully subscribes to that statement. On the threshold of the new millennium, profound changes are affecting the lives of nations and individuals. Many are benefitting from open international relations. Others feel marginalized politically and economically. And all too many countries are still threatened by persistent poverty, social injustice and domestic strife. We need a strong United Nations to counter these forces, which separate nations and tear them apart. We need a renewed United Nations to focus on the tasks for which it was established, and to meet the new challenges of today and of tomorrow. This is why we need fundamental United Nations reform: not piecemeal improvements, but major change. This is why Sweden wholeheartedly endorses the reform proposals presented by the Secretary-General. We give our support as an active participant in all spheres of United Nations activity and as a major contributor to its development funds and programmes. United Nations reform is not a cost-cutting exercise. Its aim must be to make the Organization strong, effective and efficient, focusing on its core activities and ready to meet its future challenges. The Swedish Government supports the proposal that efficiency savings should be used for development. The United Nations cannot be reformed under the threat of political and financial crisis. It is simply not acceptable that Member States should set conditions for fulfilling Charter obligations. The Swedish Government urges all debtors — including the main debtor, the United States — to settle their accounts before the end of this year and to pay their assessed contributions in full, on time and without conditions. Securing a sound and viable financial basis must be an integral part of reform efforts. The idea of establishing a revolving credit fund could be considered as an emergency step. We should also enact measures to reverse the current trend of late payment. Article 19 of the Charter should be applied more strictly. It is also time to agree on a new scale of assessments based on capacity to pay. A realistic proposal has been presented by the European Union. We, the Member States, should provide political direction for the reform process. We should take an overall view of United Nations reform, and avoid getting trapped in details. We are fully aware that there will be further steps: reform is a process, not a one-time event. Today, I will emphasize the need to strengthen and reform the United Nations in four key areas: peace and security, sustainable development, human rights, and disarmament. First, the United Nations must be strengthened and reformed to effectively prevent and settle armed conflicts. This is the purpose for which the Organization was established. This is where success or failure will ultimately be determined. Long-term prevention should address the root causes of conflict: poverty, social injustice, oppression and violations of human rights. The United Nations world conferences have established the close relationship between security and development. The United Nations must continue to build on this political platform. Conflict prevention is a task which requires coordinated action by the United Nations system as a whole, including the international financial organizations, and also by non-governmental organizations. Cooperation at the regional and subregional levels is increasingly important for building a security environment based on common values and norms. It is equally urgent to strengthen the ability of the United Nations to act on the threat of an erupting conflict. The whole range of United Nations instruments, including those mentioned in Article 33 of the Charter, should be developed and used to their full potential. Sweden wishes to cooperate with other Member States to enhance the United Nations capacity for early warning and early action. The new generation of peacekeeping operations must combine political, military, humanitarian and civilian United Nations action, and strike the right balance between various forms of response. The United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator plays a key role in fostering a response to humanitarian crises. This should lay the groundwork for post-conflict reconstruction and long-term recovery of war-torn nations. The Swedish Government supports efforts to set up a rapidly deployable mission headquarters within the United Nations. Together with Austria, Canada, Denmark and Norway, we are creating the multinational Stand-by Forces High-Readiness Brigade (SHIRBRIG) to enhance the United Nations capacity for rapid deployment. In many situations United Nations civilian police can help prevent conflict and restore ravaged societies. I therefore 21 appreciated the opportunity I had, during Sweden’s presidency of the Security Council in July, to deliver a presidential statement on civilian police in peacekeeping operations. It calls on Member States to make qualified police quickly available to the United Nations through better and standardized training. We need a global security architecture: a web of organizations capable of dealing quickly with a wide range of threats and potential conflicts. Regional organizations will further gain in importance. But the primary and overall responsibility remains with the United Nations. Conflict prevention, peacekeeping, peace-building and humanitarian action to protect the victims of conflicts have to be at the core of United Nations reform efforts. But the decisive factor will not be the instruments with which we equip the Organization, but rather our willingness to use them, to pay for them and to accept the authority of the United Nations. My second theme is that the United Nations must be strengthened and reformed to combat poverty and promote sustainable development. Fighting poverty, supporting sustainable development and promoting economic integration are part of the Organization’s mandate as set out in the Charter. Sweden sees this crucial task as being in its own best interest. Our own development has benefited much from the multilateralism of this century. The Swedish Government wholeheartedly supports the proposals of the Secretary-General to reform the United Nations in the economic and social fields. We want an empowered and capable United Nations. We want a unified United Nations presence in the field so that the United Nations system can be a reliable and flexible partner for developing countries. We want long-term commitments from donors and more equitable burden-sharing for financing development. Sweden is one of the four countries fulfilling the United Nations aid target. Over a three-year period, by the year 2000, we undertake to further increase our aid budget, challenging the international trend. In spite of a few difficult years, we have kept up our voluntary contributions to the multilateral system. In the coming years we foresee increases. To support debt relief for the poorest countries the Swedish Government will contribute 295 million Swedish Krona to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative. One of the greatest challenges facing the international community in the coming years will be to achieve global sustainable development. The industrialized countries must take the lead and learn how to do more with less input of resources and energy. Our goal should be to use energy and raw materials 10 times more efficiently. In our efforts to combat climate change, the developed countries should, this December in Kyoto, agree to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases. My third theme is that the United Nations must be strengthened and reformed to protect and promote human rights. Sweden applauds the Secretary-General’s steps to integrate human rights into all United Nations activities. We welcome the appointment of the distinguished Mrs Mary Robinson as High Commissioner for Human Rights. Next year the United Nations will celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This historic document establishes the individual as a subject in international relations, with her or his own rights and aspirations. Violations of human rights are a legitimate concern for the international community. The Human Rights Year 1998 will be an opportunity for celebration, but also for critical assessment. We should reform human rights machinery and strengthen assistance in this field. The implementation of international human rights standards must be improved. Public information and fact-finding on human rights violations are crucial. It is particularly important to expose any attempt by Governments to silence those who bravely stand up in defence of human rights and basic humanitarian principles in their own countries. Sweden will continue to work hard to combat torture. We will stand firm in our rejection of the death penalty, wherever practised. It is an abhorrent practice, unworthy of our times. Cooperation must be enhanced to eradicate sexual abuse, exploitation and trafficking in children and women. Governments need to take firm action against discrimination based on gender, ethnic origin or religious belief. Next year’s diplomatic conference will be a milestone in the decades-long endeavour to establish an international criminal court. The court will play a crucial role in closing the gap of impunity for those who commit genocide, serious war crimes and systematic or large-scale human rights violations. My fourth and last theme is that the United Nations must be strengthened and reformed to build security 22 through disarmament. Disarmament, non-proliferation and arms control are central features of any policy aimed at preventing conflict, promoting peace and fostering economic and social development. They must become fully integrated elements in a coordinated policy for peace- building. The 1990s have seen impressive progress towards disarmament, but much work lies ahead. The international political and security climate now offers a historic opportunity. It must be fully translated into concrete actions. It is imperative that the quest for a nuclear-weapon- free world continue. Sweden urges the Russian Federation to ratify the Strategic Arms Reduction Talks II (START II), enabling the conclusion of START III. This should pave the way for further reductions, on the part of all nuclear- weapon States, with a view to the total elimination of nuclear arsenals, in accordance with Article VI of the Non- Proliferation Treaty (NPT). The Canberra Commission on the Elimination of Nuclear Weapons has proposed a series of measures to achieve a world free from nuclear weapons. Its report merits in-depth consideration in international disarmament forums. Let me focus on two timely aspects. The Commission proposes that nuclear forces should be taken off alert and that warheads be removed from their delivery vehicles. I urge the United States and Russia to apply these measures without delay to all strategic weapons covered by START II, and subsequently by START III. Nuclear-weapon-free States have a legitimate right to assurances that they will not be attacked or threatened by nuclear weapons. The time has come to elaborate a legally binding instrument under the NPT, giving such assurances to non-nuclear-weapon States Parties. Conventional arms — especially light weaponry — are at the heart of today’s conflicts. They aggravate tensions, provoke and prolong wars and inflict human suffering — sometimes long after ceasefires and peace settlements. The flow of conventional arms to areas of tension and conflict must be stemmed. I welcome the high priority given to such objectives in the Secretary-General’s reform programme. There is a need for export control of conventional arms as well as of dual-use products. International cooperation in this field and the demand for an international code of conduct for arms transfers are matters of high priority for the Swedish Government. From a humanitarian point of view, anti-personnel landmines are in a category of their own: indiscriminate by nature, crippling innocent children, women, men and nations. I am proud to say that Sweden was the first State to propose a total ban on this terrible type of weapon. I warmly welcome the Oslo agreement on a convention on such a ban. I urge all States to accede to it. We must now make every effort to achieve universal adherence to this ban. Reform is necessary to build a stronger and more relevant United Nations. I have outlined some major aspects from Sweden’s point of view. As I have emphasized, but must not look at United Nations reform in isolation, we must consider why we need the Organization and what it can do for all of us through all of us. Today’s international environment is rife with contradictions. We have a globalized economy, but we also have a periphery unable to benefit, and left further and further behind. We have ever closer international cooperation, but we also have aggressive nationalism and xenophobia. We have growing support for democracy and human rights, but we also have atrocities and blatant disregard for international law. In this situation, the purpose of the United Nations should be precisely what is spelled out in its name and its Charter: to unite nations and people.  ﻿Before I begin my speech, may I associate myself with the final appeal made by Prince Albert of Monaco, who preceded me at this rostrum. Perhaps this Organization can be instrumental in achieving an Olympic truce for the Olympic Games of 2000 and for those of 2004, which we will host in Athens. I think that this is an initiative that the Organization should take seriously. Allow me to warmly congratulate you, Sir, on your election. Your qualities and skills augur well for the progress of this session. Moreover, I am especially pleased to salute in your person a representative of the Ukraine, a country with which Greece maintains long-standing friendly relations. I wish also to pay tribute to your predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail, for the effective manner in which he performed his functions. The Greek Government is impressed with the way the new Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, has been discharging his duties. His great experience warrants the hope that his ongoing endeavours aiming at the reform of this Organization will be crowned with success. On this occasion, I would like to express my appreciation to the United Nations membership at large for electing Greece to one of the positions of Vice- President of the General Assembly. Earlier this week, the Foreign Minister of Luxembourg, in his capacity as President of the Council of the European Union, delivered a statement to which my Government fully subscribes; we subscribe as well as to the Union’s memorandum, which has been submitted to the Assembly. I would like, however, to elaborate further on some issues of particular interest to my country. As the millennium draws to a close, Greece, located at a crossroads of countries and civilizations, is striving to free the twenty-first century from the scourges of the past, thus offering to our region prospects of progress and prosperity. We are the only member of both the European Union and of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) in our region, and we thus we function as the latter’s link to Europe, guided by our firm belief that conflicts and prejudices have to be overcome through respect for international law and the principles of the United Nations. In this context, we believe that Greece is able to play an important role in the Security Council and are therefore seeking election to that body, to one of the two non-permanent seats allocated to the Group of Western European and Other States for the biennium 1999-2000. Deeply dedicated to the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter, we are ready to take our share of responsibility for international peace and security. Indeed, Greece has been actively participating in several peacekeeping operations as a troop-contributing country. This year, we became a member of the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations. We have advocated the Committee’s expansion as a positive step forward, and we support any effort aimed at improving the peacekeeping capabilities of the United Nations. Furthermore, Greece has confirmed its willingness to participate in the stand-by arrangements system and has joined other Member States in the continued efforts to 4 enable the Organization to react more quickly and more efficiently to future peacekeeping requirements. As I reaffirm our palpable commitment to peacekeeping, I wish also to express my country’s deep appreciation for the courage and dedication shown by peacekeeping personnel in confronting challenges to peace and security. Comprehensive reform and restructuring of the United Nations system, including the size and working methods of the Security Council, must be attained with a view to meeting the changing needs of the world community as it moves into the next millennium. The reform package presented by the Secretary-General in July is a response to this necessity and constitutes a welcome step towards modernizing and strengthening the United Nations. Greece will contribute in a constructive and positive way to the success of the efforts undertaken by the Secretary-General through his proposals. We live in a world characterized by globalization and the introduction of new technologies; hence, the United Nations is called upon to pursue a broader set of objectives focusing on democratic development, sustainable development and higher living standards for all citizens of the world. The political commitment of its Member States and their contribution of adequate resources constitute the two fundamental prerequisites for the success of the United Nations. In this context, we welcome the determination of all Member States, in particular those that play a major role in the Organization’s decision-making process, to fulfil their financial obligations on time and in full. Greece, a State Member of the United Nations since 1945, will continue to honour its obligations to the United Nations, gradually increasing its annual contribution to the peacekeeping operations budget, moving from group C to group B on its own initiative. The nineteenth special session of the General Assembly, on the overall review and appraisal of the implementation of Agenda 21, held last June, gave us the opportunity five years after the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, the Rio Conference, to renew and reinforce our commitment to sustainable development. Greece, with one third of the coastline of the entire Mediterranean basin and almost 3,000 islands, has a specific interest in promoting the management of coastal zones, sustainable tourism, sustainable water management and policies to combat desertification and deforestation. We have been uninterruptedly implementing a long- term strategy for the protection of the environment while sharing with the international community the belief that Agenda 21 can be implemented only through a sense of common responsibility. However, the major environmental problems of our planet cannot be successfully tackled if socio-economic ills such as poverty are not combatted and eradicated. Since the last session of the General Assembly, the prospect of a comprehensive settlement of the Cyprus problem has, regrettably, remained elusive. For 23 years now Turkey has maintained more than 35,000 occupation troops on the island, blatantly defying international law. At the same time, the Turkish Cypriot population, for the protection of which the invasion was allegedly undertaken, has dwindled dramatically since 1974, due to political oppression coupled with the massive influx of settlers from mainland Turkey. The Government of Greece aims at a reunited Cyprus, a common home to all of its inhabitants. We maintain that a settlement on the basis of the resolutions of the United Nations and the high- level agreements of 1977 and 1979 can bring peace and reconciliation to the island. Such a settlement should provide for a bizonal and bicommunal federation with a single sovereignty and international personality and with its independence and territorial integrity safeguarded through effective international guarantees. There is no doubt that a functional solution of the Cyprus problem would eliminate a source of instability in the region and contribute to the improvement of Turkish-Greek relations. The main obstacle, however, remains Turkey’s aim of legitimizing the status quo. Ankara’s negative stance and lack of political will were once again displayed during the direct talks recently held under the auspices of the Secretary-General at Glion-sur-Montreux. As the President of the Security Council pointed out in an informed briefing to the press, “substantive progress at this time was impeded by the attempt to bring preconditions to the table by the other party, and here of course I mean the Turkish Cypriots.” On the other hand, the constructive stance of the Cypriot President, Mr. Clerides, at the talks was praised by the President of the Council in the same statement. His proposal for the demilitarization of Cyprus must retain our thorough attention. 5 Greece unwaveringly supports the process of Cyprus’s accession to the European Union, which will commence at the near future. We believe that its accession will benefit all the island’s inhabitants. It could also act as a catalyst for the solution of the political problem. We sincerely hope that Turkey will eventually realize the benefits of the accession of Cyprus to the European Union, especially for the Turkish Cypriot population, and will change its present stance. Our relations with Turkey have taken an additional downturn since 1996, when our neighbour added direct territorial claims to the existing policy of demands, threats of war and constant pressure, in an attempt to subvert the territorial status quo established more than 70 years ago by international law and treaties. Its attempt to back these claims by military means in January 1996 resulted in a crisis that just fell short of war. Greece, while determined to protect, by all legitimate means, its sovereign rights stemming from international law, sincerely agrees that there is a need to establish normal good neighbourly relations, based on the principles of international law and respect for international treaties — something which Turkey seems determined to ignore. It has been a consistent policy of our Government that Greek-Turkish relations should be addressed in a context of respect for international law and treaties. Greece has made it its policy to channel such relations through accepted rules of behaviour and the principles recognized in international life. The Madrid Joint Statement, signed by Turkey's President, Mr. Demirel, and the Greek Prime Minister, Mr. Simitis, provides a welcome initiative which might contribute to a gradual improvement. The problems that really exist must be dealt with by legal means provided for by international law, and specifically through the International Court of Justice. Such a step would open possibilities for a gradual build-up of good-neighbourly relations and the establishment of confidence and cooperation in every field. In this sense, we are waiting for a move by the new Turkish Government to work in this direction — away from statements and acts which confuse the issue and relate to a past that we must transcend by means of those principles of international law that are enshrined in the United Nations Charter, and that our gathering here pledges to serve. In the Balkan Peninsula, the area where Greece itself is located, the situation is gradually improving. My county has played an active role within the framework of various international activities designed to promote peace, stability, good neighbourliness and development in the area. Greece values its historical relations with Albania. It is committed to continuing to work for the strengthening of cooperation between the two countries in all fields and to extending assistance for the rehabilitation of the country, in particular after the recent crisis. Our contribution to Operation Alba and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) presence has been essential and prompt. The Greek minority in Albania will remain an important factor of friendship between the two peoples, actively contributing to the progress of their country. Greece fully supports the process initiated with the Dayton Agreement. Maintaining excellent relations with all actors in the Yugoslav drama, we contribute substantially in keeping the peace. We have sent out massive humanitarian aid from governmental and non- governmental sources alike; we have deployed our soldiers with the Stabilization Force (SFOR); we have sent observers both on the European Community Monitor Mission and OSCE teams; and we are actively engaged in reconstruction work in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am proud to report that we are among the few not only to put forward the money pledged at the 1996 Donors' Conference, but actually to have brought to completion the programmes we undertook to fulfil. Furthermore, we are increasing our contribution for 1997, by 35 per cent. All this, I must note, took place while we were massively engaged in stemming both the Albanian crisis and the deterioration of the financial situation in Bulgaria. Persistence in implementing the Dayton Agreement, encouraging democratization and opening up to the market economy and to the international community will provide guidance for all on ways to overcome present difficulties and will enable all actors to normalize their relations with each other, the United Nations and the international community in general. Honouring the Interim Accord with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM), we continue talks under the auspices of the Special Envoy of the United Nations Secretary-General, Mr. Vance, about the final name of that country. We hope that the Skopje Government will realize the need for an early solution to this issue. In the multilateral field, we have persistently promoted the process of cooperation and good 6 neighbourliness in southeastern Europe, actively participating in such regional schemes as Royaumont, the Southeast European Cooperative Initiative (SECI), Balkan Cooperation, and Black Sea Economic Cooperation. The Declaration adopted in Thessaloniki on 10 June 1997 by the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of countries of southeastern Europe has given a substantial impetus to this process. In the same spirit, in early November Greece will host in Crete a summit of countries of southeastern Europe. The situation in the Middle East continues to concern us. In fact, recent terrorist actions like those in Jerusalem, as well as the tragic situation in the West Bank and Gaza, constitute the tangible consequences of the stagnation of the peace process. Revival of both the peace process and the peace hope requires adherence to and full implementation of the relevant United Nations resolutions and international agreements. The parties have to live up to their commitments. Real peace is a just and global one — in Israel as well as in Lebanon, where the need to implement Security Council resolution 425 (1978) continues to be painfully felt. Greece supports any efforts which could have positive results, and hence we encourage those undertaken by the European Union's Special Envoy in the Middle East. Moreover, our country is willing to offer any assistance aimed at the strengthening of peace and stability, security, and economic and social progress, as well as the establishment of confidence among all parties to the Middle East problem, in favour of the peoples of the area. Greece is following with particular interest the recent developments in Africa, auspicious or ominous as they appear. Indeed, an increasing number of African countries are adopting pluralism as a form of Government and open- market principles for their economy. It is Greece's belief that on the eve of the twenty-first century the international community must encourage and assist African countries to promote pluralism, respect for human rights and a free- market economy. Important developments will take place during this century in Africa. Latin America, with which Greece has traditional ties of friendship, is consolidating the pace of development of recent years. Also, through successful regional integration, the countries of the region are assuming a stature on a worldwide scale that truly reflects the importance of the progress the region has achieved. Last June's Bucharest Meeting between the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Council and the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR) is a telling example. Greece, both bilaterally and as a member of the European Union, is looking forward to an increasing, comprehensive and substantial dialogue with the Latin American countries, to the benefit of international cooperation, trade liberalization, and stability. The United Nations remains mankind's best hope for jointly solving the problems that collectively beset the world community. We therefore fully support the call for the reform of the United Nations. However, we strongly believe that any decision regarding the future form and function of our Organization should be taken by consensus and should reflect the needs and aspirations of all Member States — big and small, rich and poor alike — in whose hands and political will the destiny of the United Nations lies. Greece is prepared to shoulder its share of responsibility in this ongoing reform process.  ﻿There is an overwhelming air of expectancy across the world as we gather at this fifty- second session of the General Assembly. It is hoped that the events of this session over the next few weeks will present a new vision for our Organization. The success of this session will depend upon Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko, the Foreign Minister of Ukraine and current President of this Assembly. His reputation for excellence and hard work assures us all that under his presidency, the affairs of this session will be well ordered. May I therefore take this opportunity, on behalf of my Head of State, General Sani Abacha, and the Government and the people of Nigeria, to extend to him our congratulations on his election. Let me also avail myself of this opportunity to extend to his predecessor, Ambassador Razali of Malaysia, our praises and high esteem for the purposeful and dynamic leadership he gave to the General Assembly during the past year. My delegation notes with satisfaction the excellent manner in which our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, has settled down to his onerous tasks and conducted the affairs of our Organization since he took office. He has demonstrated through his reform proposals his capacity to lead the United Nations into the twenty-first century. We will continue to extend to him our fullest cooperation and support. As we gather here to contemplate the present state of our world, it is tempting to be optimistic that the United Nations will provide a solution to the problems of nations. The truth however, is that all around the world lies evidence of the Organization’s unfinished tasks, and even of some of its failures to meet mankind’s hopes and aspirations. Nonetheless, the fact that Member States continue to participate in the annual sessions of the General Assembly signifies that the search for peace and the pursuit of development are indeed ongoing processes. There still subsists an abiding faith in the United Nations and the willingness on the part of all of us to continue to strive for a better and more peaceful world. That is why many nations have come here from time to time seeking understanding for their individual travails, believing passionately that here they would find accommodation and support. Many of them have returned home disappointed, confounded by the realities of today’s world, as they come to terms with the awesome power wielded by the strong against the weak. We must remain mindful that international relations represent a complex mix of national circumstances and the demands and dictates of a changing external environment. International relations must be based on a perceived goal of the common good, on mutual respect for sovereignty and on accommodation and consideration for national circumstances and sensitivities. The United Nations must therefore continue to serve as the bulwark against the imposition of the will of the strong on that of the weak. 23 No nation ever addresses this body without a point of view peculiarly its own. We all come here with our histories, our cultures and our traditions, which give meaning and substance to the values we seek to impart to this Organization. In the case of my country, Nigeria, we have the added burden of manifest destiny. While we did not choose our destiny, we welcome its concomitant obligations and opportunities. For it is destiny, not national ambition, that motivates us in the discharge of our responsibilities. In this regard, we see in the predicament of each troubled African State a mirror image of ourselves and a call to duty to render assistance in the best tradition of African brotherhood. Our exertions on behalf of regional and subregional peace and security arise from the circumstances of our history as the largest black nation on earth and the fortunate circumstances of our bountiful endowment. It is our destiny that we are home to one of every four Africans and one of every five blacks on earth. How could we be indifferent to the plight of the black race? It is our unshakeable destiny to champion the promotion and defence of the rights of all black people in Africa and in the diaspora. So, let no one imagine that we have only just embraced our peacekeeping role, because, as is well known, we nurse no expansionist or hegemonistic interests. We simply cannot be indifferent to the plight of our brothers in other African States when their lives are imperilled. Since our admission to the United Nations on 7 October 1960, we have given a firm indication of our country’s determination to chart an independent course in world affairs and also to resolutely defend the interests of Africa. When, for example, an atomic device was detonated in the Sahara in 1960, Nigeria did not hesitate to express its disapproval by breaking diplomatic relations with the country concerned. Furthermore, we are proud to have been part of the effort that brought about the formation of the Organization of African Unity in 1963. We have since spared no effort to ensure the survival of that continental Organization. We were also in the vanguard of the struggle for the total liberation of Africa from colonial domination and of the campaign to eradicate apartheid in South Africa. We regarded the apartheid system as an affront to the dignity of the black race. Similarly, our contributions to United Nations peacekeeping operations span nearly three and a half decades. Starting with the Congo in 1960, we have committed in excess of a quarter of a million troops to United Nations peacekeeping efforts. They have been variously deployed to preserve peace and security in our own region and elsewhere around the globe including in Bosnia, Cambodia and Lebanon. At the inception of our Organization over half a century ago, its founding fathers captured, in the preamble to the Charter, a vision and an expectation of saving succeeding generations from the scourge of war. It was hoped that a global order would emerge in which humanity would live at peace with itself and nations would be able to cooperate in furtherance of peace and security. In spite of the end of the cold war, which for many years was perceived as the main obstacle to the realization of United Nations goals, our world is still largely unsafe, insecure and unstable. The threat of nuclear war still truly exists. This makes it imperative that the total elimination of nuclear weapons remains a priority item on the United Nations agenda. Over and above the threat posed by nuclear weapons, there has been a proliferation of inter-State and intra-State conflicts with attendant negative consequences for global peace and security. In Central Europe, Asia and in our continent, Africa, these conflicts have devastated societies, resulting in millions of refugees and displaced persons. Africa is the area worst affected by these conflicts. The United Nations has primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. However, it also recognizes the crucial role which regional and subregional organizations may play in the realization of these objectives. It was in the light of this recognition that the 16 countries of the West African subregion launched, in 1990, the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Monitoring Group (ECOMOG) to address the conflict in Liberia, which at the time was rightly perceived as a threat not only to the corporate existence of a Member State but, indeed, to peace and security in the entire subregion. As a result of the firm resolve of the leaders of ECOWAS and the determination of ECOMOG, coupled with the enhanced material and logistic support received from friendly countries within and outside the subregion, the disarmament of the warring factions was successfully accomplished as scheduled, on 31 January 1997. An environment of peace and security was then established throughout Liberia. It then became possible for free and fair legislative and presidential elections to be held as scheduled, on 19 July 1997. On 2 August this year, His Excellency Mr. Charles Ghankay Taylor was installed as 24 President of Liberia. That event brought to an end a sad chapter in the history of Liberia. As Nigeria is currently chairing ECOWAS, we take this opportunity to convey to the international community our profound appreciation for its support and assistance in bringing the Liberian conflict to a successful end. It is ironic that as peace came to Liberia events in neighbouring Sierra Leone took a turn for the worse, following the violent overthrow of the legitimate Government of President Tejan Kabbah by a section of that country’s military on 25 May 1997. That action was characterized by massive looting and wanton destruction of lives and property. Vital national assets, including the Central Bank, were looted and burnt down. Virtually all embassies and residences were either looted or vandalized by the ravaging group of coup plotters now in Freetown. All diplomatic missions have since evacuated Sierra Leone. These developments have been roundly condemned by the OAU, the United Nations and the international community. It is encouraging that no foreign Government or organization has to date given recognition or support to the regime in Freetown. We urge that this position be maintained. Meanwhile, ECOWAS has spared no effort in seeking a peaceful resolution of the problem created in Sierra Leone. At Conakry, in June 1997, ECOWAS objectives were defined to include: first, the early reinstatement of the legitimate Government of President Ahmad Tejan Kabbah; secondly, the return of peace and security; and, thirdly, the resolution of the issues of refugees and displaced persons. Accordingly, ECOWAS adopted a combination of three strategies, namely dialogue and negotiations, sanctions and embargo, and the possible use of force. A mechanism to monitor and implement the ECOWAS response to the situation in Sierra Leone was established, comprising four countries: Nigeria, Guinea, Côte d’Ivoire and Ghana. During the last ECOWAS summit, held recently at Abuja, the committee was expanded to five with the addition of Liberia, and was raised to the status of Heads of State. At that same summit, additional measures were imposed on the illegal regime in order to strengthen the negotiation process towards the peaceful resolution of the crisis in Sierra Leone. ECOMOG was mandated to oversee the implementation of these measures. In pursuing this goal of the peaceful resolution of the Sierra Leone crisis, we seek the support of the international community. Africa has of late witnessed a series of inter-State conflicts which have in some cases led either to the disintegration of some countries or to the total collapse of central government authority. Consequently, many well- meaning members of the international community have tried to propose solutions for prevention and resolution of conflicts in Africa. Regrettably, these various initiatives have not only been made outside the framework of the United Nations, but, more seriously, have tended to ignore the existing framework and mechanisms within the African continent. Yet it is obvious that the existing mechanisms at both the subregional and the continental levels have demonstrated a proven capacity to resolve African problems. ECOWAS, the Southern African Development Community and the Intergovernmental Authority on Development have all established a reputation as viable instruments for conflict resolution. Of course, most of the regional and subregional bodies require material and logistical support from the United Nations as well as from individual members of the international community. Nigeria believes that no initiative, however well intentioned, can succeed in resolving conflicts if it is not discussed and adopted within the framework of the OAU Central Organ’s Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution. Accordingly, we recommend that all current initiatives should be first channelled through the existing organs of the OAU. It is our view that national sovereignty and the fundamental rights of the individual are not necessarily mutually exclusive, provided a proper balance is struck. Indeed, they can be mutually reinforcing. The problem arises when, either deliberately or inadvertently, the prerogative of sovereignty is made subject to the absolute rights of the individual. This is a disservice both to the cause of freedom and to the true purpose of democracy. What is required in the interest both of the State and of the enhancement of human rights is a proper recognition that the right of the individual only begins at the point where the sovereign right of the State terminates. We must resist the attempt in some quarters to use human rights as a ploy to engage in activities designed to undermine the sovereignty of some Member States in the United Nations family. Two years ago, the present Administration in my country announced a programme of return to civil rule. Since then, commendable progress has been made in the implementation of that programme. We are encouraged by the successful outcome of the elections held so far and of 25 the processes which we have undertaken to ensure a successful transition. The rest of the programme is firmly on course. We remain firmly confident that all the processes entailed in the transition programme will be completed on schedule, by 1 October 1998. We have always given due recognition and appreciation to all friendly countries in the international system which have shown genuine concern for and understanding of the complexities of the Nigerian situation. After all, in 1960 we as a country willingly embraced the Westminster model of Government put in place by the departing colonial Power. That system took little or no account of our traditional institutions, or indeed of our customs and cultures. Indeed, that system collapsed after six years. In 1979, my country, being more adventurous, looked far across the Atlantic Ocean and adopted the presidential system of government. However, the cost of running the system placed a huge burden on our country’s economy. Not surprisingly, that system too collapsed after five years. Today, no one can blame us as a country for searching for a system of government best suited for Nigeria, a system which takes into account the realities of our nation. You may call it by whatever name, but the peace, stability, development and good governance of our people remains uppermost in our minds. At 37, Nigeria is by all standards a relatively young nation. Even those countries that have been nations for centuries and have inherited relatively stable societies are still grappling with the complexities of nationhood and experimenting with new formulas to cope with the exigencies of state. They were not present when their forefathers, who also fought bitter civil wars, struggled to hand them their present inheritance. They should therefore show greater understanding for those of us engaged at this time in the arduous task of forging new and stable societies from the ruins of colonialism. If Nigeria appears concerned and indeed preoccupied with the vital issues of peace and stability at home, in West Africa and in Africa as a whole, it is because we are convinced that the urgent demands of socio-economic development cannot be effectively tackled without peace and stability. Nigeria believes that peace and stability in Africa will facilitate the channelling of our limited resources into the critical areas of political, social and economic development. Consequently, since the end of our civil war in 1970, we have embarked on a deliberate and substantial reduction of the Nigerian armed forces from a strength of 500,000 in all ranks to the barely 100,000 that it is today. This has resulted in a corresponding reduction in military expenditure. Security considerations have sometimes compelled countries to allocate a disproportionate share of their national budgets to military expenditure. This has had the effect of reducing resources available for development. The end of the cold war had raised hopes that substantial resources would be available in the form of a peace dividend for development. Unfortunately, the proliferation of regional conflicts and civil wars has led even the United Nations into allocating enormous resources for peacekeeping and conflict resolution, thus weakening its capacity to fulfil its Charter obligations regarding social and economic development. Since its establishment 52 years ago, the United Nations has served as an instrument for implementing a global agenda of a diverse, complex and pressing nature. As has been evident from the debates that have taken place in the General Assembly, no one today can deny the need for and the urgency of reform. In this regard, the Secretary-General has now made a number of proposals, in addition to the ongoing efforts of the General Assembly on the subject of reform. My delegation will actively participate in the consideration of these proposals. In doing so, it is important to stress that the outcome should encompass and take on board the views and interests of all Member States. The reforms of the United Nations, as proposed for the Secretariat, the General Assembly and the specialized agencies, would be incomplete without a corresponding reform of the Security Council. A reform of the Council would entail a restructuring and expansion of its membership in both categories to take account of, among other things, the increased membership of our Organization and the need to reflect the interests of all the constituent regions. Happily, there is now broad agreement on the need for the expansion of the membership of the Security Council in both categories. With almost a third of the membership of the United Nations, Africa should have adequate representation in an expanded Security Council. At the thirty-third summit of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) held in Harare, Zimbabwe, last June, leaders of Africa reaffirmed the need for the region to have two permanent seats with full veto powers. Nigeria considers this demand legitimate and well deserved. 26 We stand here today as guardians of the heritage of our cherished Organization, even as we gaze at the future horizon and the dawning of the new millennium. The vision we harbour about the future of the United Nations is inevitably conditioned by the objective realities of the present and the vigour with which we shall pursue the hopes and challenges of the new millennium. It is within our means and our grasp to make the next 50 years of the United Nations different, more exciting and generally more beneficial to the world at large. We can plead no alibi or extenuating circumstances should we fail to do so. For, unlike in San Francisco, when nearly two thirds of the present membership of the United Nations did not participate in the creation of the bold new world, this time around, we, all 185 nations at the United Nations, are the world, and we are present at the reordering of the new international world order, as envisaged by the reform proposals of the United Nations and its organs. We should take the opportunity to establish a revamped United Nations of shared values and interests and to promote a greater equality of States. Students of history will bear testimony to the fact that over the centuries, centres of power and influence have shifted constantly from one part of the world to another. The rise and fall of great empires has been a constant phenomenon in human history. A gale wind of change is now blowing across the globe. My country, Nigeria, identifies with that change, which inevitably will result in new centres of power and influence. It is not to be imagined that any one continent will forever remain at the periphery of the emerging new world order. The millennium bell tolls for the nations of the world as we await the dawning of the new age. We must not shirk our responsibility for the regeneration of the United Nations. We are the world. Let us, from this historic Hall, reaffirm our faith in humankind. Let our dream come true for a new and vibrant inner vision that will light our paths into the next century. Now is the time; as the late Mother Teresa so gently reminded us, “Tomorrow has not yet come, yesterday is already gone, and we have only today — let us begin”.﻿Allow me, at the outset, to express to Mr. Udovenko, on behalf of my country’s delegation, our 21 warm congratulations on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at this session. His election to that high post is a tribute of the international community to his friendly country and a reflection of the confidence of the Members of the United Nations in his ability to shoulder this heavy responsibility. By the same token, we express our great appreciation to his predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail, for the great efficiency with which he conducted the affairs and deliberations of the Assembly at its previous session. Furthermore, I wish on this occasion to express my country’s gratitude to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for the unrelenting efforts he has made since his assumption of his post to enhance the role, efficiency and effectiveness of the United Nations. Some people have thought that the end of the so-called cold war would be conducive to the creation of favourable conditions for equitable and healthy international relations based on mutual respect and fruitful and constructive cooperation among human communities. However, what the Secretary-General has rightly described as a period of “frenzy” has not taken long to lay such assumptions to rest and wreak havoc in several regions of the world. This frenzy is the product of the new unipolar system in which one country sits alone on the top. This singularity has emboldened that country to continue to spread its hegemony, expand the area and scope of its aggression and impose its conditions, concerned only with its own interests and ignoring those of others. It has even fought against the interests of its own allies. Those who have exposed these trends and refused to pay homage and obeisance except to God have been labelled outlaws. The end of the so-called cold war deprived the world of that balance of power which had, in the past, provided a protective umbrella for all small, poor and weak countries. It has even protected other countries as well. The most important need on the international scene today is to work seriously to establish any kind of international balance to preserve the little that has remained of States’ independence, freedom of thought and action, and then to reverse the negative effects of the period of frenzy, which is still with us, although it has somewhat receded. The United Nations has been manipulated by the only super-Power, which sits alone at the top, against certain peoples, States and even regions that have joined this Organization in search of protection, security, peace and cooperation. The United States of America has managed to push the Security Council into adopting resolutions outside its competence against whoever has said “no” to unilateral hegemony and tyranny or defended the independence of their countries and their ability to take free decisions and have free choices. These resolutions adopted at the height of the period of frenzy at the beginning of this decade were falsely described as being consistent with international legality, while in reality there was nothing legal or international about them. They were adopted through diktat and by the use of threats directed at the capitals of the States concerned in order to ensure their continued applicability. Paragraphs 102 and 103 of the report of the Secretary-General on the reform process (A/51/950) clearly and unequivocally show that these resolutions not only lack international legality but also that they should be reviewed and rescinded. Globalization which means only the imposition of the interests, language, culture, values and customs of the one and only Power at the top is not globalization. It is merely a crowning of that Power as head of the entire world. Proof of this can be found in the great contradiction between words and deeds. Its leaders call for the liberalization of international trade, then enact legislation imposing one embargo after another on the movement of goods and capital against those countries and peoples that want to remain independent and free in their decision-making. They punish, through their own legislation, whoever in the world cooperates with it. What was published today in The New York Times regarding cooperation between a company located in a State which is an ally of the United States, and Iran is the clearest evidence of the truth of what we are stating. They are the ones who dictate economic embargo resolutions against countries and peoples and then unilaterally follow up their implementation. Moreover, it is these same quarters that work to disarm countries and selectively destroy whatever weapons they have, while allowing only themselves and their allies, to the exclusion of everyone else, to manufacture, possess and acquire armaments. The same quarters provide money, men, technology, and know-how to a select group of countries in order that they may establish and develop a military industry capable of producing all types of conventional weapons and even weapons of mass destruction, and if necessary would send their armies and fleets to fight at their sides. 22 They call for the protection of human rights while refusing to acknowledge human rights for anybody but their own people. This is the case in the denial of the right of the two Libyan citizens to a fair and neutral trial. It is the same country that calls for the combating of terrorism and then goes on to label self-defence, the defence of honour and resistance against foreign occupiers, as terrorism. They call for democracy and then support and finance those who oppose democracy, especially if those who come to power are against the influence in their country of the only super-Power. These examples of the contradiction between words and deeds, between propaganda and the executive policies and legislative positions of the very same Power, clearly show that the call for globalization is not intended for the good of the world. In reality the world reaps nothing but a name. The African continent, which is considered the most underdeveloped part of the world as we stand at the end of the twentieth century, is not, in fact, responsible for its backwardness. A brief review of Africa’s history and a discerning look at its present state of affairs readily show that all the problems, without exception, Africa faces — whether they be problems of political instability in some of its regions or economic underdevelopment in most, if not all, its countries — are caused by those who colonized and drew the political borders of the African countries. Not one single African country has drawn its own borders with its neighbours. It was the colonial countries which did that, dividing tribes, clans and communities among different countries and thus sowing the seeds of the current social tensions in many parts of the continent at an early time. This was a deliberate act carried out under the infamous policy of “divide and rule”. Not only did they draw the borders, but they also looted the natural resources, which they now monopolize. Any country that dares to free its resources is quickly surrounded by embargoes. They use all the financial and economic institutions, including the so-called international institutions, in a manner that deprives these countries of any choice but to surrender to their conditions or face the consequences of confronting them. The responsibility for what happened during the past epoch and for what continues to occur in our African continent should be shouldered by those who caused it in the first place. The slogan “Africa should help itself”, though seemingly innocent, is misleading, because it involves an attempt at avoiding the responsibility for the consequences of the acts of those who sowed the seeds of all this in the not-so-distant past. This is still fresh in the memory of current generations. Those who do care for Africa do not impose conditions for assisting Africa. Africa is ready to cooperate with those who are willing to help, but cannot accept dealing with those who dictate to it. My country would like to endorse the position outlined here in the General Assembly and at the Security Council meeting devoted to Africa by President Robert Mugabe, President of Zimbabwe and current Chairman of the Organization of African Unity (OAU). This is the position of all Africa and all Africans. From this rostrum, my country salutes President Mugabe. We confirm what he said: Africa does not ask for charity from anybody. We urge those who seek permanent membership in the Security Council to remember Africa all the time, and not only when they need the votes of its countries in the General Assembly to help them take over posts and seats in various councils and committees. We urge them, and others, to review the standards and criteria for their relations with the African countries before it is too late. Allow me to recall what one of Africa’s leaders said 15 years ago. His country used to export one ton of cocoa in order to import one tractor. Now it has to export 12 tons of cocoa in order to import one tractor. This astronomical increase in the price of manufactured goods compared with the price of raw materials in the space of 15 years is a sufficient reply to all the questions raised about the relationships of others with Africa in various fields. This very example explains some of the causes of the suffering in several African countries, at various levels. We would like to say here to both old and new colonialists alike: Hands off Africa, then Africa will know how to help itself. The truth of what we have been saying all along concerning the Palestinian question has been proved to everybody. Everyone here has seen and heard about the practices of the Israeli occupation authorities in Palestine and the other occupied Arab territories, from the Golan to southern Lebanon, or rather, all of Lebanon. The Security Council held meetings to consider the situation in these territories, but those meetings were aborted by the 23 American veto. The General Assembly held a special session on the matter, and what was the result? Nothing. This would explain what the region is facing these days, and what is in gestation now is even more dangerous than what is being witnessed today. The Iraqi people are not only starving and dying; they are suffering from something more serious than hunger and more dangerous than death. It is known that some Iraqi individuals have been forced to sell body parts, such as kidneys, to feed their children for a little while. What kind of international legality can justify the continued application of sanctions that lead to such results? How can any claims be accepted now from those who pay lip service to so- called human rights, yet do not apply them except to serve their political ends? How is it then possible to allow the partition of Iraq and the violation of the inviolability of its borders and its territory by foreigners and their armed forces? It is the United Nations which is responsible for this situation, since it created the conditions that led to this situation and has provided the cover for what is happening in Iraq. It is now the United Nations responsibility to redress this situation to which it has given rise. My country overlooks the Mediterranean, with a coast that extends for about 2,000 kilometres. That is why we are very keen on making the Mediterranean a lake of peace and cooperation for its coastal States. However, this is made impossible by the presence of foreign military bases and foreign fleets that undermine the region’s stability and represent a permanent source of danger. This presence has been the cause of our continued concern, because we have sacrificed half our population for our freedom. Three times a year, we celebrate the anniversaries of the evacuation of foreign troops from our country. Peace, stability and cooperation in the Mediterranean will be possible only when foreign military bases are eliminated, when foreign fleets are withdrawn from its waters. My country, like the rest of the developing world, welcomes the international conventions aimed at the prohibition and elimination of weapons of mass destruction. We believe that this is in the interest of mankind as a whole. However, the resumption of nuclear tests, under any pretext, is a great source of disappointment because they are a violation of the international conventions concluded in this field. The possession by Tel Aviv of nuclear weapons has placed the entire eastern Arab region under a direct threat, constant dangers and definite instability. Without technical and financial support, without the experts and scientists who are part and parcel of this support, such weapons would not have been produced in the region. It is well known — indeed, it has been declared — that tests are now being conducted on long- range missiles that could deliver these weapons of mass destruction to their targets in Arab and Muslim lands alike. Tests are also being conducted on anti-missile missiles, as part of the strategic cooperation between Washington and Tel Aviv. On the other hand, all Iraqi weapons have been destroyed. Preparations are being made to destroy all the weapons of the Arabs and Muslims, who are helpless and whose territories are occupied. Alliances are being forged to surround the Arabs and Muslims so as to prevent them from ever becoming powerful and so as to secure for Washington their oil, their gas and their markets. This is the truth, however bitter it may be for us Arabs and Muslims to swallow. My country would like to alert the world to the real sources of danger, not the fictitious ones — that is, those being used to fabricate causes and pretexts to justify the destruction and recolonization of the rest of the world. It is not Libya, nor Syria, nor Iraq, nor Iran nor the Sudan which constitute any danger, by any measure, to the security of the region or the security and peace of the world. The real danger to international peace and security lies in Washington and Tel Aviv, and those who emulate them. They both possess and manufacture weapons of mass destruction. Washington manufactures them and Washington exports them. This is while the countries to which I have referred do not manufacture weapons and, moreover, have been prevented by America from importing any such weapons. America has imposed an international arms embargo against those countries. It has destroyed Iraqi weapons, and is now preparing to destroy the conventional and even the obsolete weapons possessed by others. This is the law of the United States against which these countries have rebelled. Thus they were labelled “rogues”. This is the new and old form of discrimination. This is the newest form of anti-Semitism. We call for emptying the region of the Arab East of weapons of mass destruction, which Tel Aviv owns. The plants that manufacture these weapons should be subjected to international safeguards and controls. We also call for investigating the financial and technical support that enabled Tel Aviv to produce these weapons. We must criminalize this support and those who provide 24 it. The agreements of military strategic cooperation between Washington and Tel Aviv are hostile instruments, targeting the region as a whole and its peoples. This provides evidence of the real intentions of the United States towards the region and its peoples, voids its allegations and argumentations with respect to disarmament and reveals its intentions. We highlight these issues to show the world the extent of the injustice to which we have been subjected and to what extent the United States of America is deceiving everybody. The United States used to have five military bases in my country. It had monopolized the production and export of Libyan oil and gas. The United Kingdom also had a number of military bases in Libya. Through its own company, British Petroleum, it also produced and exported our oil. With the advent of the revolution of 1 September 1969, Libya immediately evacuated the military bases of those two countries and later liberated its oil wealth from their companies. However, under international conditions that the Secretary-General has rightly called a period of frenzy, the two countries thought that the time was ripe for a return to what they were forced to relinquish and to regain control of the 2,000-kilometre-long Libyan coastline, adjacent to the three old continents of Africa, Asia and Europe. They believed the time was ripe to regain control of my country’s oil, gas and market, as well as neighbouring markets. Once finished with the Gulf War, they turned their attention to Libya. However, the two countries were unable to find a pretext to realize their ambition of a new return to Libya except by resorting to allegations, which came to be known later as the Lockerbie case. What is the real truth about Lockerbie? In brief, and precisely, it is as follows. First, both the United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain are aware, more than anybody else, that Libya has nothing whatever to do with this aeroplane and the tragic incident that killed its passengers and crew. Second, both the United States of America and the United Kingdom claim that two Libyans placed a time bomb in a bag on board a Maltese Airlines flight that took off from Malta, and that the bag was unaccompanied baggage. They claim that this very bag, which was not accompanied by a passenger, was transferred in Frankfurt airport from the Maltese Airlines aeroplane to an American aeroplane destined for London. Once again, they say, this same bag was transferred in London airport from the aircraft originating in Frankfurt to Pan Am Flight 103, which later took off from London and exploded over Lockerbie, Scotland. Can the Assembly imagine how an unaccompanied bag can move by itself from one airplane to another and from one airport to another with such accuracy? Third, the Government of Malta investigated the matter and found that there were no unaccompanied bags on the flight in question. Malta announced the results of the investigation at the time. Fourth, the competent authorities in Germany, in turn, investigated the question and found nothing to corroborate the story about the bag. Fifth, in any case, my country, despite the known objectives of the authors of the accusation, dealt seriously and pragmatically with the accusation. We informed all concerned parties that we had begun implementation of the provisions of the 1971 Montreal Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Civil Aviation. The legal authorities in Libya began exercising their legal jurisdiction in accordance with that Convention. Sixth, my country asked the two countries concerned to hand over to Libyan judicial authorities the results of their investigations so they could be used in our investigation. This request was rejected. Seventh, my country then asked the two countries to send investigators to Libya to participate in the investigation. Once again they refused. Eighth, my country then offered to send its judicial officials to meet with the competent authorities in both the United States and the United Kingdom to peruse the file on this question. This offer was turned down. Ninth, Libya also offered to let a neutral party or parties to carry out the investigation. The two countries refused that offer. Tenth, once again, my country proposed that the United Nations should carry out the investigation. That proposal was rejected. 25 Eleventh, in a letter addressed to the Foreign Minister of the United Kingdom and the United States Secretary of State by the Secretary of the General People’s Committee for Foreign Liaison and International Cooperation, my country requested that article 14 of the 1971 Montreal Convention be invoked. That request was refused. Twelfth, Libya proposed resorting to the International Court of Justice to decide the case. That proposal was turned down by the other parties. And when my country unilaterally took the case to the International Court of Justice, the parties concerned quickly turned the whole issue from a legal to a political one, submitting it to the Security Council to prevent the International Court of Justice from deciding the case. Here we have the Security Council dealing with an issue pertaining to two citizens of a country. The issue is now five years old. So the issue is before the Security Council precisely to prevent the International Court of Justice from deciding the case since the matter was put before the Security Council, despite the fact that Libya, naturally, had resorted to the International Court of Justice before the matter was even referred to the Security Council. This is how this legal question was politicized. When did that occur? This was done at the peak of the “frenzy” period, on 21 January 1992. Nobody at the time could say no to the United States of America. As we all know, the Security Council, under well-known and frankly recognized pressures, adopted resolution 731 (1992) which did not stipulate any surrender of the suspects, but requested a response to the demands of the countries concerned. I repeat, it did not provide for surrendering the suspects. Thirteenth, my country has fully responded to the provisions of the resolution both in terms and content by cooperating with the United Kingdom on the question of the Irish Republican Army, and with the French investigating judge in all the demands he made. Furthermore, we agreed to a trial for the two Libyan suspects in a fair and neutral court. Fourteenth, the aim of both the United States and the United Kingdom has not been to discover the real culprit in this regrettable and tragic airplane incident. They already know who the responsible party is. Their real objective has been to use the whole issue, including the human blood that was shed, to achieve their own political objectives which I have already elucidated. To achieve that end, they exploited the Security Council once again, pushing it to adopt resolution 748 (1992) which imposes a near total embargo on Libya and its dealings with the rest of the world. The Council also adopted resolution 883 (1993), which complemented the previous resolution. Fifteenth, in the face of all this intransigence and arrogance, when all efforts and mediation failed to convince the two countries concerned to opt for dialogue and negotiations; since they had earlier unilaterally severed their diplomatic relations with my country; and because my country has no extradition treaty with either of the two countries, we resorted to regional and international organizations. Today, we would like to put on record, as always, our deepest appreciation to these organizations for their support and for their stand in favour of what is right. Those organizations, let us recall, represent more than two thirds of the international community. We hasten to confirm that the other third is not against us; rather, its States are simply not members of those organizations. The League of Arab States, the Organization of African Unity, the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the Non-Aligned Movement have all supported my country and expressed their appreciation for my country’s flexibility in our handling of the issue, as well as for the positive initiatives we have proposed. Sixteenth, the League of Arab States and the Organization of African Unity, through the Harare summit, under the chairmanship of President Robert Mugabe, have proposed that the trial of the two suspects be held in a neutral third country to be determined by the Security Council; that the two suspects be tried by Scottish judges, under Scottish law, at the seat of the International Court of Justice in The Hague; or that a special criminal tribunal be established to try the two suspects at the seat of the International Court of Justice in The Hague. Seventeenth, both the Secretary-General of the Arab League and the Secretary-General of the Organization of African Unity came to United Nations Headquarters with the resolutions of their respective organizations in hand, resolutions that are supported by the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the Non-Aligned Movement. They submitted these resolutions to the Secretary-General of the United Nations and to the President of the Security Council and its member States. What was the reaction of the United States and the United Kingdom? Both rejected the requests made by other members of the Council and used the Council’s work mechanism — so-called consensus — to reject all proposals submitted by their majesties and excellencies, the kings and presidents of the 26 two organizations. Naturally, this was a shock to both regional organizations because they were fully and arrogantly ignored. Eighteenth, on 25 September of this year, during the Security Council’s ministerial meeting on Africa, the entire meeting became a forum for discussing the issue when it was raised by His Excellency President Robert Mugabe, President of Zimbabwe and current Chairman of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), in his address to the Council. Again, in the name of my country, its leader and people, I wish to express again our gratitude to President Mugabe for his honourable defence of the concerns and the causes of Africa as a whole, and in particular his defence of my country on this question. The issue was also raised by His Excellency Mr. Salim Ahmed Salim, Secretary-General of OAU, and by most of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the Council’s members. As we express our gratitude to all of them, we wish to confirm that their support would have never been so forthcoming had we been wrong. Nineteenth, about a week ago, the Council of the League of Arab States decided to call on Arab States to mitigate some of the impacts of the sanctions imposed on my country. We are grateful to the Council and to all our brothers. We realize that this is a step in the right direction and that it is but a mild reaction to their being ignored last July. We ask you for justice. Members of the Security Council are not against my country. They have expressed that in all our meetings with them. They further add that our problem is with the United States and the United Kingdom. Our dispute is with the judge. How can anyone expect the Security Council to solve the problem when our adversaries are both permanent members of the Council and possess the veto power? Once again, our problem is with the United States and the United Kingdom. We have no problem whatever with the Security Council, and the Security Council has no problem with us. Had these two countries accepted the proposals of the regional and international organizations, had they showed respect for the States members of these organizations and for their presidents and representatives, the Security Council would not have hesitated for one moment to accept them. This is what we were told by members of the Council. We are not just saying that. My country calls on all of you to intervene so we can reach a peaceful solution to this dispute, one that would accelerate the holding of the trial for the two suspects before a fair and just court, in an atmosphere free from prior condemnation, in any place agreed upon, or decided upon by the Security Council. The two suspects were advised by their American and Scottish lawyers against accepting a trial before any court in Scotland or the United States. This is because of intensive media coverage and statements by officials in the two countries which have created a climate and public opinion that have convicted them in advance of any trial. This does not accord with their human right to receive a just and fair trial. The fact that the United States Government has accorded Timothy McVeigh, accused in the Oklahoma explosion, the right to change the venue of his trial from Oklahoma, where the crime occurred, to another state — namely Colorado — is evidence of respect for one of the human rights — a respect which should not be restricted only to the citizens of the United States. This is because human rights should be enjoyed by all human beings, irrespective of their nationality. Human rights should not be accorded to some and denied to others. My country, at all levels of official responsibility, has repeatedly condemned terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. We have disassociated ourselves from all suspected terrorist practices. We have also repeatedly asked the Secretary-General and the Security Council to send a committee or envoys to ascertain on the ground the validity of our claims. However, the refusal and objections of the United States prevented the Secretariat and the Security Council from responding to our requests. This is one of the main reasons why we have such strong suspicions about the true intentions of the United States against my country. This has also exposed its political objectives, for the attainment of which it did not hesitate to exploit human blood. We call on the international community, as represented in this Assembly, to work towards reaching a solution as soon as possible. The United States refusal to allow this side issue — “the question of terrorism” — to be closed is aimed at serving the particular objectives of that country, objectives we have already referred to. Everybody knows that it was the United States which more than once committed 27 terrorist acts against my country, using its fleets and its bombers. The most heinous of these acts was the barbaric raid on the night of 15 April 1986 against the residence and office of the Libyan brother leader, and against other residential neighbourhoods in both Tripoli and Benghazi. In this raid, tens of children, women and elderly were martyred in their sleep. The United States cannot produce one shred of evidence to prove the so-called Libyan terrorism, whereas Libya has dozens of proofs of the terrorism perpetrated by the United States against Libya. The raid made on the night of 15 April 1986 is not a suspected perpetration of an act, as is the case with our citizens who are suspected by the United States. The raid of 15 April 1986 is an established fact whose consequences can still be seen in the tombs of the martyrs in the famous El-Hani Cemetery and in the remnants of buildings that still clearly show the marks of bombs and rockets. And if all of this is far away in Tripoli and Benghazi, I am here before you and I personally stand as a proof of the terrorism of the United States. These scars here on my face and on my head, and on other parts of my body covered by my clothes, are the result of a bomb that an American aircraft dropped on my house, which was totally demolished that night. My young son, who was less than 10 years old at the time, was also injured. We, who personally were victims of the American raid, resorted to the American judicial system here in the United States and brought a legal suit before an American court. Despite all the evidence, the American judicial system rejected our case. This negative experience with American justice would surely discourage anyone from accepting to be tried by such a judiciary, especially if the opposing party was the American Government. I personally tried to institute a lawsuit and had American lawyers. My house is destroyed and erased from the Tripoli map. I have scars on my face, yet the case was rejected. And now we are to trust it and send our citizens before it? How? We cannot forget that crime. We will always call for those who decided, planned and implemented it to appear before competent Libyan courts for trial. The crime took place in my country. They say that a crime took place in Scotland? Fine. But another crime took place in Tripoli and Banghazi. Are their people citizens, and our people are not citizens? We are also citizens of our own nation-State. They have mere suspicions. We have facts not suspicions which were actually shown on American television screens. We believe that the reform of the United Nations is of the utmost importance to us. However, optimum results of this reform cannot be achieved unless the financial situation of the Organization is put on the right track and, most importantly, Member States must pay their assessed contributions. The fact that the United States has reneged on its contractual commitments to the United Nations by not paying its assessed contribution to the budget is the cause of the financial crisis from which the Organization has suffered for years. If the United Nations is to be reformed, that State must pay all of its arrears without conditions and promise to pay in future, on time and without pressures that aim to make the United Nations a hostage of the will and policies of that country. We know that that State is now pressuring members of the General Assembly to make up for the lowering of its contribution by 5 per cent. We know that nothing has been decided yet regarding changes of assessment or contributions. This is what we call sitting on top of this unipolar world. This is what we are warning the world of. We would not have known that had we not been told by those who are being pressured to pay the extra 5 per cent. The fact that they told us — the Libyans — clearly shows that they are dissatisfied and that they obviously are refusing. They cannot say no. But we can say no. Within the framework of the reform process, it is essential to have a complete review of the situation of the Security Council. By virtue of our experience with the Security Council — an experience I have just commented on — we know and appreciate the importance and necessity of reforming the Security Council and expanding its membership. We believe that the reform should focus first on improving the methods of work of the Council — its mechanisms — thus making it impossible for any one country to hamper the work of the Council or make it irrelevant. My country, which a quarter of a century ago called for the abrogation of the veto power, would like to emphasize now that any reform of the Security Council that does not rescind the veto power would be meaningless. There is no longer any historical or objective reason for maintaining this power. It is not justifiable by any standard of righteousness, justice and equality, and even under the standards of democracy, to which certain countries pay lip service. At the same time, we believe that the reform process will not be useful if it does not take into consideration the interests of all countries and peoples. That is why my country will support any initiative that would do away with the present imbalance in the 28 membership of the Security Council. In this respect, we should like to underline the need to adhere to the proposals of the Non-Aligned Movement, which are based on full, sovereign equality among States; seek to apply the principle of equitable geographical distribution; and respond to the demands of the developing countries, which represent the majority of the Members of the United Nations. The General Assembly is the United Nations organ that truly embodies the universal and democratic character of this international Organization. Since it is the only intergovernmental body with a mandate to discuss any question or matter under the Charter, including the maintenance of international peace and security, Libya would like to underline the wide-ranging and repeated calls for the need to invigorate the General Assembly and enhance its powers so as to increase its effectiveness in confronting the ever-changing challenges that face the international community. Lastly, I wish to apologize for having taken up so much of the Assembly’s time.﻿Allow me to convey the congratulations of the Government and the people of Bolivia to you, Mr. President. Your well-deserved election is fitting recognition of your work and prestige. Allow me also to commend the work of Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia, who so ably conducted the deliberations of the previous session of the General Assembly. Finally, my congratulations go as well to Secretary- General Kofi Annan, whose contributions to the cause of world peace and cooperation have earned him the unanimous gratitude of the Member States of this Organization. All the countries of Latin America, in one way or another and each at its own pace, have put long decades of ideological confrontation and economic crisis behind them. They have opened their markets, controlled inflation, reduced the deficit and privatized public enterprises. They have rebuilt their democratic institutional structures on new foundations, with new protagonists, and restarted the process of growth. However, old structural adjustment problems, aggravated by the period of crisis, have surfaced. Clearly the most important of these is the inequitable distribution of income and its results: exclusion, poverty, violence and social fragmentation. Such inequities have created ever- greater gaps between the immensely rich and those who have barely enough to survive. There are no social security systems to protect the dispossessed, to cushion their fall and rehabilitate them so that they can live a productive life. For this reason, the potential for violence and discontent on our continent is growing larger and more dangerous. These factors aside, however, Latin America meets all of the necessary conditions to forge ahead and grow in that it has the capacity and courage to continue to change — to increase society’s store of knowledge, create new competitive advantages, eliminate internal marginalization, reduce extreme poverty, rebuild the State, and speak with its own voice in the world political community. Education stands out as a vital precondition for all of these goals. Without a far-reaching revolution in the area of education, we will not be able to achieve these goals or meet the challenges of our time. Today, Latin America is no longer asking others for what it cannot do on its own. Proof of this is the significant progress recently made in strengthening mechanisms for economic integration, such as the Andean Group and the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR). The region is also taking a different approach in its relations with the economically advanced countries. The old defensive and mistrustful attitude has yielded to the conviction that it is necessary to merge Latin America’s economy into the contemporary current of productive and technological development, attract investments and open its markets to its products while preserving its identity, upholding its values and attending to its interests, without for an instant losing sight of the fact that the key to its strength lies in its own markets and in its resources. Let me reiterate Bolivia’s concern about landmines. It is incomprehensible that those very same borders across which we are seeking to promote trade and integration should be sown with devices of war that endanger the civilian population and threaten their fundamental rights. We are convinced that the Governments of the region directly affected by the problem will find a way to resolve it. This matter is of particular and direct relevance to Bolivia, due to the well-known and acknowledged fact that Chile has laid a significant number of mines along our common border. Removal of those mines is of the utmost urgency, in keeping with the commitments entered into in Oslo, the dictates of morality and the imperative of the spirit of integration that should prevail between neighbouring nations. Avoidance of this topic is not the attitude that the international community wishes to see. What is needed is firm resolve and the sincere will to contribute to peace between countries that must impart a sense of solidarity to their borders. Since the early days of its independence, Bolivia has rejected the use of force and the arms race as an instrument of its foreign policy. We have the moral authority, therefore, to condemn those commercial interests that seek to foster the procurement of war matériel, thereby compromising what we have achieved so far in terms of preserving peace on the continent. I have sought to describe the process of change in Latin America in order to show the extent to which developments in each of our countries are part of a broader and more comprehensive historical trend. However, Bolivia’s transformation has its own particular features. Following a lengthy process of social confrontation, we have restored democracy and economic freedoms in Bolivia. In a spirit of respect for human rights and freedoms, we have given full support to the political system and fuelled the economic growth and development that prevail today in Bolivia. It should be underscored that this was a peaceful reconstruction process — the result of democratic dialogue. My Government, the product of a mandate of the people, represents more than 70 per cent of the Bolivian electorate. Nonetheless, we must continue to move forward and broaden the scope of dialogue and consensus, involving social institutions and their leaders in the task of identifying the main objectives of development in Bolivia as well as the broad outlines of our strategy for the twenty-first century. That is the purpose of the national dialogue that I have recently called for, which has the support of all the political parties — Government and opposition; the church; private enterprise; and farmers and workers. Of course, this new country we are building is looking to the future from a different perspective and with a sense of renewed confidence. The time has come to reaffirm Bolivia’s role on our continent — its role as a crossroads and as a land of contacts, at the juncture of the great basins and the great cultures of America. Bolivia’s key geographical position may become one of its major comparative advantages and an essential element in enhancing the country’s international stature. However, this is not yet a reality. It is a task that remains to be accomplished, a promise that remains to be fulfilled. To this end, Bolivia will need to rebuild its maritime capacity; reduce the transportation cost of its products; and create a modern export sector and connect it with the Pacific and the Atlantic. We must see and understand our country as a part of the continent. Bolivia’s association with MERCOSUR is not only the result of a desire to cultivate a historical friendship but also a consequence of the concrete needs of Bolivian development. The exceptional growth in the eastern areas 2 of Bolivia calls for a more intense and productive relationship with our neighbours on the Atlantic. That effort coincides with one of the most impressive development ventures in the history of America, which is taking place now on the territories of Brazil, Bolivia, Paraguay, Argentina and Uruguay. Investments and technology must be allowed to flow freely in that region. We must set up a genuine common market, a multinational development project, around this potential, which should also promote the integration of our countries into the world economy. It is well known that the Paraguay-Paraná waterway is the natural route linking the area. That major project, however, has already gone beyond the imagination of the visionaries and the negotiating tables of the diplomats. It is now in the hands of engineers and workers. After more than 30 years of efforts, construction has begun on the Santa Cruz-San Pablo-Curitiba gas pipeline, the first segment of a network of energy distribution for which Bolivia’s territory provides the crossroads. This is one of the largest engineering projects in the history of the region. It will stretch for more than 3,000 kilometres, will carry more than 7 billion cubic feet of natural gas over 20 years and will require a total investment of nearly $5 billion. Bolivia’s very existence is directly tied to the Pacific. Accordingly, we have been following with great interest the process of consolidating the vast potential of the Andean community. That potential is also found in our immediate vicinity. The economies of Bolivia, Peru and Chile are complementary. Our territories are not only markets, but avenues for integration. The territories of Peru and Chile hold Bolivia’s gateway to the Pacific, while that of Bolivia opens up communication between those nations and the vast interior of the continent. I must stress, however, that the reality still falls far short of the potential. The reason for this is to be found in a war that took place just over 100 years ago, and whose adverse consequences continue to be felt in the relations between our countries. Undoubtedly, the most unjust and serious of those consequences is the geographical enclosure imposed upon Bolivia. Bolivia’s demand to return to the Pacific Ocean, with sovereign rights and a coastline of its own cannot be renounced. It is a vital condition for our national development but, above all, a historical claim that cannot be compromised. The recovery of our maritime access, temporarily lost, is an essential condition for fulfilling our continental role as a crossroads and a point of convergence. My country will turn to the international community as many times as necessary in order to call attention to a problem that has already been deemed a matter of permanent hemispheric interest in the light of its many implications for continental security and harmony. Despite everything, my Government, as always, remains ready to explore avenues of constructive dialogue with an open mind. Illicit drug trafficking unjustly distorts the reality of Bolivia and affects and interferes with the proper conduct of external cooperation. Bolivia itself has done a great deal to contain this problem. It has not permitted drug trafficking to taint beyond repair its economic, institutional and political structure. And it has done so peacefully, without resorting to violence. Nevertheless, the stigma of drug trafficking exists, and while we are disturbed by the manner in which it is magnified, it would be a mistake to ignore it. Accordingly, my Government has taken the decision to remove Bolivia from the drug-trafficking circuit within the term of my administration. We shall use dialogue and consultation with peasant producers of coca in order definitively to eradicate illegal crops. We shall be ruthless with the drug traffickers. We shall not give them a moment’s rest until they have been for ever banned from the history of Bolivia. Naturally, this is not an exclusively Bolivian problem, nor can our actions alone resolve the global and hemispheric problem of illegal trafficking in narcotics. It is a matter that concerns all and that requires everyone’s commitment. Therefore, the time has come to reaffirm the principles of shared responsibility. The characteristics and scope of this problem mean that it cannot be faced effectively through isolated efforts. It undeniably calls for resolute action by all countries, especially those affected by consumption and who have sufficient economic resources to combat this terrible evil. My country reaffirms its commitment to the peace process in the Middle East in keeping with the principles and values that guide harmonious coexistence between peoples. However, given the resurgence of tensions and new acts of confrontation, we call upon the parties not to go back on the commitments already made. That is the firm answer for maintaining peace in the region. 3 In another vein, Bolivia has received with satisfaction the Secretary-General’s initiative proposing a broad programme of reforms in the United Nations system. We feel it is essential to strengthen the role of the Secretariat. We reiterate the importance of the process of expansion and reform of the Security Council with a view to correcting present imbalances, guaranteeing equitable and non- discriminatory geographical distribution, improving its decision-making mechanisms and making it an organ that can take action in a manner that is increasingly legitimate and representative of the countries that make up the United Nations. Bolivia shares the view that we should move towards the elimination of the veto, limiting its use in the interim to issues considered under Chapter VII of the Charter. Bolivia reiterates its commitment to the principles that have guided global solidarity for more than 50 years. We Bolivians believe that there can be no relinquishing of the standards that establish mutual respect and the sovereign equality of States, regardless of their size or level of development. Nor can we surrender the principles of peaceful settlement of disputes, the inviolability and integrity of territories and respect for self-determination of peoples that wish to preserve their own systems of life and Government, free from threats. If there is a lesson to be learned from the experience of the century now drawing to a close, it is the versatility of the human endeavour. Mankind has an incorrigible tendency to make mistakes, but also a talent for correcting them and for building from the rubble the new portals of freedom and faith. With the approach of the new millennium, at an hour that is both dusk and dawn, we must look upon the events of the world from the dual perspective of humility and hope. ﻿As President of Colombia and Chairman of the Non-Aligned Movement, I would like to extend to you, Sir, my sincere congratulations on your appointment to preside over this most important session, and I also wish to thank Ambassador Razali for his diligence in performing his duties during the fifty-first session of the Assembly. Over the decades the United Nations has shown that its founders were not mistaken when they entrusted to it the mission of developing a new model of co-existence for our planet, thanks to which we defeated colonialism, fought against apartheid, prevented territorial confrontations, extended our hand to help children, defended the rights of women and protected the environment. However, we find ourselves today at a crossroads similar to that which led us to sign the San Francisco Charter. The globalization of the world has brought about the internationalization of problems such as drug trafficking, terrorism and corruption, all of which seriously threaten our systems. Certain industrialized nations are behaving selfishly in defining new rules of the game for free economies. Unilateralism and conditions imposed by the powerful upon others are rampant throughout the world. The spare capacity of the military industrial complex since the cold war is encouraging the beginning of a dangerous arms race. The open wound of foreign debt is still an obstacle to the development of many of the poorest countries. The violation of human, political, social and economic rights is also the order of the day. The new United Nations, which the Secretary- General has proposed we should reflect upon as the century comes to an end, will surely not deal only with armed conflicts. We must be prepared to face other kinds of war: social war against poverty; judicial war against organized crime; political war against interventionism in our sovereign economies; and moral war against the violation of human rights. We cannot yet assert that the process of globalization really represents progress for all of humankind. While globalization has generated great economic and technological advances, such progress continues to be the privilege of the industrialized nations and very small segments of the population of the rest of the world. True progress for humanity cannot be brought by phenomena which generate new and more profound imbalances in the quality of life for individuals. We must work hard to ensure that States and multilateral organizations such as the United Nations, direct their efforts to guaranteeing that the benefits of globalization do not remain in the hands of a few. Therefore, any reform of the United Nations must begin with the return of the concept of solidarity which inspired the San Francisco agreements, and which is the very raison d’etre of our Movement. We want not more summits, but more compliance with the summits not yet complied with; a summit on compliance with other summits would be welcome. The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) is not being properly complied with. Important members have yet to ratify the Chemical Weapons Convention. There seems to be no interest in making progress on fundamental agreements to restrict the conventional arms markets run by the world’s merchants of war. Government aid, as a proportion of the resources transferred to developing countries by developed nations, has dropped from 42 per cent to 24 per cent in recent years. Funds for military operations within the United Nations system have increased 17 times compared with increases in funds for social programmes. We must find new paths for the United Nations to follow. The reform of the United Nations system proposed by the Secretary-General must encompass all spheres of the United Nations system as a whole. In the first place, there is the economic sphere. The Bretton Woods organizations — the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund — which were born as part of the agreement of March 1946, have 6 progressively been removing themselves from the original direction exercised by this Assembly over their economic and social policies. They have ended up by configuring a development model which they impose on developing economies, without those economies being able to discuss their own priorities. Reform should include matters such as having greater international liquidity, greater flexibility in the management of multilateral debt, concessionary credit flows for social investment and coordination with economic bodies representing the interests of developing countries, such as the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), the Economic and Social Council and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO). The situation of the United Nations social sphere is the most worrisome. The greatest burden of the Organization’s budgetary crisis has fallen upon the bodies involved, whose financing has dropped by many millions of dollars during the present decade. Some developed countries have inexplicably withdrawn from bodies devoted to children, culture, population, employment and the environment, such as the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the International Labour Organization (ILO), the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), the World Food Programme (WFP) and the United Nations International Drug Control Programme. The report of the Secretary- General contains interesting proposals to restore the activities of such bodies, which constitute the very heart of the United Nations. In a world where 1.3 billion people still survive on less than a dollar a day, in a world where, for the price of one combat plane, 57,000 children in Africa can be fed for a year, it is impossible to conceive of a reform of the United Nations whose priority is not to strengthen the work of its institutions and programmes dedicated to social issues. Finally, there is the matter of the political relationship between the Assembly and the Security Council. The proposed strengthening of the Security Council cannot be carried out at the expense of taking power away from this Assembly, the highest democratic body of the system. Any expansion of the Council must take into account that developing countries by their nature and as spokesmen for various regions of the world, need to have greater representation. The instrument of the veto should be abolished because it is anti-democratic, since it places in the hands of one country the power to ignore the will of the majority. If the veto cannot be eliminated, it should be restricted to those matters truly fundamental for world security, and the right to appeal vetoes before judicial or political bodies, such as this Assembly, should be established. A few months ago the Secretary-General presented to the United Nations a very interesting proposal for the reform for the Organization. The Non-Aligned Movement, which I represent, is reviewing this initiative and considers that a number of its proposals would contribute to the revitalization of the United Nations. We do not want a United Nations divided between rich and poor, with Members having first- and second- class status according to their economic contributions. The United Nations is not a private company, but the forum of solidarity in which all the countries of the world come together. I wish to take this opportunity to appeal to the United Nations, and the international community at large, to confront the grave problem of arms proliferation with a clear and well-defined strategy that will lead us to concrete results. To that end, I wish to propose five points for effectively dealing with of this matter. First, I propose the declaration by the developing countries of a two-year, worldwide moratorium on the high-technology-weapons trade. Secondly, I propose the expansion of the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms to include light weapons, as well as production and storage, with a view to strengthening its role as a means of promoting confidence. Thirdly, I propose that the Governments of arms- producing countries commit themselves to the establishment of a moratorium on the sale of high- technology weapons in regions in conflict, as well as to converting their weapons-production industrial capacity and workforce to other economic sectors. Fourthly, I propose the follow-up and verification of all multilateral commitments and existing treaties in this area. Fifthly, I propose that the regulation of trade in light arms, as well as in high-technology weaponry, 7 should be a subject of deliberations at the fourth special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament. This initiative is designed to deal with the various facets of the grave phenomenon of arms proliferation, which — besides draining vast resources that could be devoted to the social and economic development of our peoples — constitutes the most dangerous threat to the peace and security of the world. Much water has flowed under the bridge that we built in San Francisco half a century ago to make the world a better place to live. We have, without any doubt, progressed, but we cannot claim to be satisfied despite what we have achieved. So long as there is a sad, hungry child in the world, there will be a United Nations. So long as there is a weapon raised to kill a neighbour, there will be a United Nations. So long as entire populations are displaced from their homes by violence, hunger and intolerance, there will be a United Nations. So long as thousands of young people do not have access to education because they must struggle every day to survive, there will be a United Nations. So long as the whims of the powerful continue to defy the aspirations of the powerless, there will be a United Nations. So long as drugs on the streets threaten the future of our children, there will be a United Nations. So long as terrorists and violators of human rights continue to run loose, there will be a United Nations. So long as there is a need for solidarity, love and joy in the world, there will be a United Nations.  ﻿I wish first of all to congratulate you, Sir, on your unanimous election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session. There is no doubt that your election to this high position is an acknowledgment of your personal competence and of the commitment of your country, Ukraine, to the United Nations and to the principles enshrined in its Charter. I also wish to pay tribute to your predecessor, Ambassador Razali, who discharged his responsibilities with great wisdom and dedication. Our appreciation also goes to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the great efforts he is making to ensure the revitalization of the United Nations. In his report (A/51/950) to the Assembly entitled “Renewing the United Nations: A Programme for Reform”, the Secretary-General has proposed measures that Member States may take to democratize the United Nations and to enhance its effectiveness as an instrument with which to deal with the challenges facing us as we enter the twenty- first century. I wish to assure the Secretary-General of Ethiopia’s full support for his initiative. Ethiopia strongly believes that the reform and expansion of the Security Council, which is long overdue, is at the heart of the United Nations reform process. Broad consensus has been established that the reform and expansion of the Council must reflect the realities of the world we live in today. The African position on the issue was articulated at the thirty-third Summit of the Heads of State or Government of the member States of the Organization of African Unity, held in Harare in June this year. Ethiopia fully supports the African position. This annual occasion affords us the opportunity to reiterate our commitment to the United Nations, to what it represents and to all efforts designed to address our common challenges. For obvious reasons, some of the common dangers we have faced have receded. The cold war, which by common consensus represented a threat to the very survival of humanity, is more or less behind us. There should therefore be far greater opportunity today for effective international cooperation in many spheres, and especially for real and tangible steps towards the realization of genuine partnership in the fight against poverty and to enable those determined to remove the obstacles to their development to achieve their goals and fulfil the dreams and the hopes of their peoples. Peace and security can hardly be made durable and sustainable when conditions faced by the majority of 12 peoples in the developing countries generate hopelessness and when deprivations suffered today are made all the more painful because existing trends, instead of providing consolation, promise more of the same, or worse. There is no more appropriate time than now, when we are preparing to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, to renew our commitment and to rededicate ourselves to the realization of full respect of human rights in all their dimensions — civil, political, economic and social rights, including the right to development and to be free from the shackles of poverty. For Ethiopia, the eradication of poverty and the promotion of human rights are the cornerstones of the country’s development strategies and democratic reforms. In the immediate human rights programme, the Federal Parliament plans to establish, as stipulated in the Ethiopian Federal Constitution, a national human rights commission and an ombudsman early next year. I wish to take this opportunity to bring to the attention of this Assembly the fact that leading members of the repressive military regime that ruled Ethiopia in the 1970s and 1980s are being tried for war crimes and crimes against humanity. These public trials are the biggest since Nuremberg. However, Ethiopian courts have been denied the opportunity to bring to justice all the perpetrators of these crimes because many of those who should be tried in Ethiopia are given safe haven in other countries, in contravention of the provisions of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. We call on the States concerned to cooperate with Ethiopia and to take appropriate measures, in accordance with international humanitarian law, to ensure that those who are responsible for crimes against humanity are brought to justice. International cooperation and the benefits that are drawn from it, whether through bilateral or multilateral means, cannot be a substitute for what individual countries must do to ensure that sustainable development is achieved and economic growth is realized. The responsibility to extricate our countries from the miseries of poverty, in the case of those of us to whom this applies, lies with us. Aid alone, whatever its nature or quantity, would not do, even if it were to be made available. But it is critically important that the international economic environment evolve towards providing an even and level playing field, most particularly for those who, for various reasons — whether on account of their own mistakes or because of complex historical reasons, some of which are not of their own making — have stayed behind and have failed to put their countries on a track of sustainable development. In this regard, we cannot but admit that not enough is being done, although much is said and promised. The old divisions might have been consigned irrevocably to the past, but we cannot pretend that, though we continue to talk about our common humanity and the common village we occupy, the other divisions in the world are being addressed, let alone bridged. It would suffice just to look at the situation of poverty in the world today and the lukewarm effort to combat and to eradicate it internationally. The prediction that the level of poverty will continue to grow in Africa is a challenge to the international community, as it is a reflection of the dire condition of the continent. The need to ensure food security for all should by no means be an impossible task to achieve for the world we live in. Here as well, individual countries facing this problem have to assume their responsibility in the first instance, but the international community should also have a role to play, including in the fight against corruption — a disease which, as we all realize, has an international aspect in its grand dimension, and is therefore not amenable to solutions taken at the national level alone. We in Ethiopia have made important progress over the last few years in building the basis for food security for our peoples. But, as should be obvious, no guarantee can be secured on food security as long as production is totally dependent, as is the case in Ethiopia, on rain-fed agriculture and when for a variety of reasons the available water is not utilized for irrigation purposes. It is in this connection that the equitable utilization of transboundary rivers becomes an issue that should be accorded the utmost urgency. Regional cooperation on international rivers will remain impossible if calculations based on a zero-sum outcome favouring one side or another govern the attitude of parties that could otherwise objectively benefit from even-handed cooperation. With respect to the question of the Nile waters, which affects Ethiopia directly and regarding which there has been no effective cooperation among the riparians, we wish to call on those involved to commit themselves to real and genuine regional cooperation which is based on a win-win perspective, ensuring outcomes that are fair, equitable and just. A status quo which is unjust cannot endure; nor can it serve as a basis for building genuine cooperation. 13 We are fully aware that at the level of the United Nations, there have been a number of initiatives designed to help address the economic and social problems faced by developing countries and to mitigate the effects of poverty and the impact of those conditions hindering the realization of sustainable economic development. However, despite good intentions, their practical implementation has always been half-hearted and, at best, less than satisfactory and therefore a source of disappointment. This applies to the United Nations Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s, to the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s (UN-NADAF) and to other initiatives. It is our hope that the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative on Africa will not meet a similar fate. This should not be regarded as criticism aimed at the United Nations. The Organization has no life and no activity of its own independent of Member States. It is we Member States that have not sufficiently seized the opportunity opened up by the end of the cold-war division of the world and the international tension engendered by that state of affairs. Not only within the United Nations but in general, both in the bilateral and the multilateral areas, the international cooperation being made available to the developing world today is not commensurate with the challenges faced by those countries, nor does it do justice to the tremendous effort made by those countries, including many in Africa, to make their economies business-friendly. A growing number of countries on our continent, including my own country, Ethiopia, have taken decisive measures to liberalize their economies, to cut Government spending, to institute sound macroeconomic policies and to enhance the role of the private sector and civil society. Because of these serious efforts at belt-tightening and monetary and fiscal discipline, there have been some encouraging developments over the past four years with regard to economic growth in a number of African countries, including Ethiopia. In my own country, for the first time in more than two decades, the economy has begun to grow, with a growth rate of over 10 per cent in gross domestic product having been achieved in 1996. The average rate of growth over the past five years has been over 7 per cent. In the area of governance and democratization, there is little doubt that, despite some setbacks, we in Africa seem to have made substantial progress over the past seven or so years. These gains need to be consolidated and enriched at a pace that can realistically be sustained, in conformity with the principles of indigenous ownership. On the other hand, it would be stating the obvious to say that our economies have been slated to go on operating in an international economic environment that is hardly friendly to growth and sustainable development. The obstacles are diverse, and they are the same ones as we have been reiterating in gatherings such as this and whenever other opportunities have presented themselves. The challenges we face involve market opportunities for our commodities, and they are also related to protectionism, unfavourable terms of trade and the difficulty associated with attracting a sufficient level of foreign direct investment. But most of all the challenges we face involve issues related to the debt overhang and to debt-servicing obligations. If there is one major impediment to the development of countries such as Ethiopia, that impediment must be identified as the debt overhang, which continues to necessitate the diversion of so many resources from productive activities that could otherwise have accelerated growth and development. We cannot, of course, be oblivious to the many proposals for debt relief and to the number of positive, albeit inadequate, steps that have been taken in this regard. We recognize and appreciate the efforts made by the Group of 7, the latest being the steps taken and the promises made at the Lyon Summit and since most particularly the promise made in connection with debt- relief measures for the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt. But even then, we cannot ignore the irony and the paradox we encounter with respect to debt relief. More often than not, to qualify for some of these debt-relief measures countries are expected to fulfil and meet conditions that are not absorbable even by economies that are far more advanced. There is little doubt that one of the key prerequisites for sustainable economic development is ownership of one’s economic programme. However, the conditionalities that accompany debt- relief measures have been undermining ownership, thereby causing the loss of possibilities of adopting policies based on a realistic and appropriate assessment of local and specific conditions. Thus, those condemned to a huge debt overhang which has become unbearable are faced with a Hobson’s choice: debt relief with renunciation of ownership, or ownership with no relief. 14 What we need in this day and age are genuine partnership and international cooperation based at least on commitments to a level playing field and to conditions that do not require those in the developing world to face impossible choices. We are indeed hopeful that some of the latest initiatives that countries are in the process of taking bilaterally and the emerging trends encouraging renewed focus on Africa, such as the ministerial-level meeting of the Security Council convened last week, will help to increase the international community’s sensitivity to the development challenges of Africa. Genuine partnership is required to make sustainable development a reality in Africa. We hope that the Secretary-General next his report to the Security Council and the General Assembly next February, will forward concrete recommendations that would spare us a repetition of past disappointments. It may not always be appropriate to see an immediate causal link between poverty and lack of economic development, on the one hand, and conflict and lack of security, including terrorism, on the other. But there is little doubt that the despair, hopelessness and malaise engendered by poverty and economic and social difficulties provide the fuel for ensuring the degeneration into all-out fratricidal war of political frictions, whatever their sources, with consequent social breakdown and the implosion of societies. We have seen too many times that once societies have imploded and State institutions have disintegrated, picking up the pieces becomes extremely difficult and a nearly impossible task. Look at Somalia. But even so, Africa has made some progress. The nightmare in Liberia is over, thanks to the immense sacrifices made by the members of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). New hope is also generated by the demise of the Mobutu regime and by the entry onto the scene of the Democratic Republic of Congo, whose Government and people need the support and the solidarity of the international community and of the United Nations. Despite some setbacks in Burundi, the countries of the region and the facilitator, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, continue to persevere in their efforts to help bring about a resolution of the conflict in that country. We are pleased and encouraged that the effort being made by Mr. James Baker in Western Sahara is showing some important progress, and we are hopeful that the day may not be too far off when it will be possible to hold a free and fair referendum in Western Sahara. I wish to associate myself with the Secretary- General in congratulating the parties to the conflict on the positive results they have achieved so far towards finding a durable solution to the conflict. In the same spirit, I would like to call on them to continue direct dialogue and to speed up the implementation of their agreements. With respect to the situation in the Middle East, we are profoundly disappointed with the increasing complications that the peace process has encountered. It is our ardent hope that the confidence which had emerged earlier will be rekindled and that the troubled region will find durable peace on the basis of justice for those to whom it has been denied and security for all. Apart from the conflict in southern Sudan, regarding which the member States of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) have continued to provide their assistance for the peaceful resolution of the problem and the reversals of the gains in Sierra Leone and the Comoros, the major conflict in Africa which has remained intractable is the one the people of Somalia are facing. Here too, important progress has been made and the opportunities for making a real breakthrough have been created which the Somalis can ill afford to squander. The framework for such a breakthrough has been made possible by the creation of the National Salvation Council, which is now preparing to hold a national reconciliation conference soon. We all recall how many resources were spent by the United Nations for peace in Somalia. Now, with a small fraction of the resources and the efforts deployed earlier by the United Nations, the international community can position itself to assist the realization of national reconciliation and peace in that war-torn country. The process of peacemaking in Somalia is at a very critical juncture. The international community and the United Nations should not keep their distance from the effort for peace in Somalia. The IGAD countries are determined to see to it that this process succeeds. The support of the Organization of African Unity and of our partners has been indispensable in this exercise, particularly in connection with the effort to ensure that those like Mr. Hussein Aideed are brought on board the peace process. It is our firm view that no one should be allowed to preempt and scuttle this process, and the unequivocal support of the United Nations for the ongoing peace process spearheaded by IGAD is indeed critical at this stage. 15 We all recall how the proliferation of initiatives for peace in Somalia created complications in the past and how, as a result, it was difficult for the international community to speak with one voice for peace in that country. There is today a much improved situation which, however, needs to be maintained and consolidated, for which close coordination between the United Nations, OAU and the IGAD countries is an absolute necessity. Since the countries of the region have been made by proximity to see no luxury in the continuing lack of central authority in that country, they have chosen to work on the basis of the maxim that a less than good Government is better than none at all in Somalia. The consequence of the absence of central authority in Somalia has been the growth of forces, including from outside the region, bent on ensuring that chaos is continued and even expanded in the country and in the region — all the more reason, therefore, for the United Nations and the international community to do more to help the countries of the region and IGAD succeed in the effort they are making for peace and national reconciliation in Somalia. In this regard, I wish to pay tribute to Secretary- General Kofi Annan for the steps he has taken to revitalize the United Nations role in Somalia and for the initiative he has taken to find ways of maximizing the support of the international community and of the United Nations for the ongoing peace process in Somalia. It is our hope that the steps that will be taken on the basis of the recommendations of the Secretary-General’s Envoy will ensure greater support of the international community for the IGAD peace initiative and bring about a more effective coordination between the external actors. We strongly believe that the Secretary-General’s proposed trust fund for Somalia will go a long way towards providing support to the peace process. In this connection, I wish also to mention the OAU/IGAD joint mission to Somalia scheduled to take place this month. The explicit aim of this joint mission is to make the Bossaso Reconciliation Conference comprehensive and all-inclusive by encouraging all parties to participate and to convey a clear and unequivocal message that no group has the veto power over peace in Somalia. Our subregion, the Horn of Africa, has been one of the regions of the world most affected by the consequences of war. The damage inflicted has been immense. Our region needs a respite and a peaceful period to make up for the lost time. Because it is a region in which deadly and prolonged wars were conducted, weapons are easily available and landmines strewn all over the place. In Ethiopia alone, it is estimated that there are over 1.5 million anti-personnel landmines, which continue to kill and maim innocent people, including women and children. In this connection, we attach great importance to the adoption by the recent Oslo Conference of the draft treaty on the ban on anti-personnel landmines. We appeal to those who remain outside the Ottawa process to sign the draft convention in December this year, so that it can be an effective instrument for getting rid of these deadly weapons. As a founding Member of the United Nations, Ethiopia has always been unreserved in fulfilling its commitment to the Organization and in upholding the principles of its Charter. My country has also been a beneficiary of various programmes of the United Nations system. Accordingly, the increasing effectiveness of the Organization in all areas and the realization of universal peace and security are goals we cherish deeply. I wish to conclude by expressing the hope that the United Nations and the international community will not miss the opportunities that have been created since the beginning of this decade for fostering effective international cooperation, eradicating poverty and realizing sustainable development in those regions of the world that have not yet achieved it. ﻿On behalf of the people and Government of Papua New Guinea, I wish to join previous speakers in conveying our felicitations to you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the fifty-second session of the General Assembly. The Papua New Guinea delegation is confident that you will guide this session to a successful conclusion. May I also take this opportunity to express my sincere gratitude to your predecessor, His Excellency Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia, for his energetic, visionary and outstanding stewardship in facilitating the work of the fifty- first session of the General Assembly. At the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, world leaders reaffirmed their resolute commitment to uphold the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. They pledged their support for the pivotal role of the United Nations in building international cooperation and partnership in development and in engendering trust and confidence among nations and peoples in order to foster world peace and security. No human institution is perfect, and the United Nations is no exception. It has nonetheless withstood the test of time. The shortcomings of our collective endeavours have necessitated efforts for constructive reform and measures directed at strengthening and reinvigorating the United Nations, our paramount Organization. Papua New Guinea has always believed, and continues to believe, in the utility of the United Nations, and in this context commends the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, for his bold initiative in proposing for our consideration a comprehensive reform package aimed at making the United Nations more responsive to the changing international situation. In his proposal, the Secretary-General emphasized that the principal objective of the reform is not only to make the United Nations efficient and effective but also to improve its delivery system and operational coherency through management innovations. Papua New Guinea fully supports these principal objectives of the proposed reform package. The overall direction of reform should and must be tailored towards strengthening the United Nations system in order to better serve the needs and aspirations of its Members. It makes eminent sense for us to move from merely debating issues to determining practical steps and strategies that would make our Organization more responsive and capable of meeting the ever-changing challenges of globalization and modernization as we enter the next century. These changes are necessary to enhance public confidence in the United Nations and to improve its capacity to build partnership between Governments and civil society. This will enable the Organization to meet the daunting challenges of economic development faced by our global community and those posed by the political and ideological differences afflicting nations today. The proposed reforms stem in part from the need to ensure the operational viability and sustainability of the activities of the United Nations. Papua New Guinea is fully aware of the predicament of the United Nations — starved of much needed financial resources for its operations to the point of being insolvent. We cannot allow such a situation to persist. We agree with and applaud the role of the Organization in development — in framing structures and policies that will enhance the technological capacities of developing countries and improve their effective participation in international markets, including their access to credit and their ability to acquire information technologies. Regarding priorities, Papua New Guinea is gravely concerned at the lack of full implementation of a number of initiatives and programmes undertaken by the United Nations, in particular with respect to such critical areas as the empowerment of women, child care, the protection of our global environment, poverty eradication and sustainable development. It is critical to be aware that organizational reform alone cannot guarantee the effective delivery of services. The United Nations needs more than bureaucratic and technocratic innovations. It needs our concerted action. It is therefore imperative that we as Members commit ourselves to encouraging the development of genuine partnerships and seriously take urgent and practical measures to remove the obstacles and barriers that exist between developed and developing countries. In addition to its traditional role in the maintenance of peace and security, this paramount international body must be equipped and strengthened to do more in framing international treaties and standards and in encouraging international norms and practices that will bring about equitable economic development and social justice for all peoples. Equity and justice in all spheres of development should be our ultimate objective. Consistent with the reform process, we see merit and value in revising the regional groupings within the context of the United Nations to reflect present geopolitical realities. In this regard, we support the calls made by New Zealand and others in the South Pacific region for the consideration of their inclusion in the Asia-Pacific grouping. I now turn to the question of the reform of the Security Council, which is an important decision-making organ of the United Nations on global security concerns. As a member of the Non-Aligned Movement, Papua New Guinea fully supports the declaration adopted by the non- aligned Ministers at the twelfth Ministerial Conference of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries — held in New Delhi, India, in April 1997 — and reaffirmed more recently in New York on 26 September last. The composition and modus operandi of the Security Council must reflect the changes that have taken place since its formative years, and, more importantly, must mirror current geopolitical and economic realities. Papua New Guinea believes that the reform and expansion of the Security Council should be guided by the principle of the sovereign equality of States and equitable geographical distribution. It should also take into consideration the need for transparency, accountability and democratization of the working methods and procedures of the Security Council, including its decision-making processes. The reform of the Security Council should be comprehensive and based on universal values in order to enhance its legitimacy. More importantly, the reformed Security Council should allow for equitable representation by developing countries. On the question of permanent membership, we reiterate our position on the inclusion of Japan and Germany from the industrialized States and also support the fair representation of developing countries as additional permanent members, particularly those that have the capacity and ability to contribute to world affairs. Papua New Guinea strongly supports the view that there should be no distinction in terms of the privileges accorded to permanent members, particularly in relation to the exercise of the veto power. In other words, all permanent members of a reformed Security Council should enjoy the same privileges so as to maintain geopolitical equity and balance. 2 It is indeed ironic to note in this Assembly the contradictory positions of some of our members, who purport to be champions and defenders of human rights issues and yet continue to maintain colonial situations that directly deny genuine democratic representation and the rights of people to govern themselves in a manner consistent with their political aspirations. Having achieved decolonization in many parts of the globe — of which the United Nations can be proud — we would be failing in our noble duty if we were to ignore the concerns and aspirations of the peoples of the remaining 17 Non-Self-Governing Territories, some of them in the South Pacific, which are still struggling to establish their own political autonomy, and even to exercise their right of self- determination. Given the importance we attach to this issue, Papua New Guinea is gravely concerned that recent initiatives in relation to the United Nations programme on decolonization have seriously eroded the importance of the political essence of that programme and have impacted negatively on it. We hope that this anomaly can be resolved quickly and amicably. Papua New Guinea wishes to recall that many of us represented here would not have taken our place in this forum had we not been allowed the opportunity to exercise that right. We therefore urge this body to adopt a more serious and aggressive approach to the implementation of the decolonization programme of the United Nations. At the recent meeting of the South Pacific Forum in Rarotonga, Cook Islands, the States members of the South Pacific Forum reaffirmed their support for the decolonization process. The Non-Self-Governing Territory of New Caledonia continues to be of great interest to the South Pacific Forum, and we have over the years followed developments there in relation to the Matignon Accords. Early this year we mounted, with the help of the Government of France and the authorities in New Caledonia, a Forum ministerial mission to the Territory. We are pleased to note that all parties to the Matignon Accords appear to be satisfied with the progress made in implementing the Accords. Papua New Guinea continues to recognize the right of the people of New Caledonia to self-determination and urges all parties in the Territory to maintain their commitment to reaching a negotiated solution as a successor arrangement to the 1988 Matignon Accords. This negotiated successor solution must take into account the wishes of all communities, including concerns on the changing demographic composition of New Caledonia. The economic prosperity and political developments and changes in the Asia-Pacific region continue to be of interest to Papua New Guinea. As a special observer of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), we were heartened by the initiatives taken by ASEAN leaders to bring the belligerent parties in Cambodia to the table for urgent negotiations for peace and security. It is our hope that the people of that ancient civilization will return to their daily lives in a peaceful and secure environment once more. The ongoing difficulties in the Korean peninsula and the competing territorial claims in the South China Sea continue to concern my Government, because they all have a bearing on the overall maintenance of regional and international security, as well as on other forms of cooperation. While we do not understate the importance and value of our diplomatic relations with the People’s Republic of China, we have, however, on a number of occasions urged both Beijing and Taipei to resolve their fundamental differences with the aim of maintaining an amicable coexistence. In view of the changing international climate characterized by global interdependence, it is important for all peace-loving States to make every effort to minimize areas of hostility that could seriously undermine international peace and security. The United Nations therefore has an obligation to assist in maintaining a secure global environment in which economic growth and other forms of development can continue to thrive for the benefit and common good of all peoples of the world. In its efforts to attain economic prosperity, Papua New Guinea has had to engage all economic entities in our trade and commercial relations. Consistent with our obligation to assure our people of a better future, we intend to expand our economic ties with trading partners that have demonstrated their willingness to assist without our having to compromise various aspects of our existing relations with our partners. It is in this regard that we recognize Taiwan as a dynamic economy and trading partner without compromising our one-China policy. Since Taiwan participates in such organizations as the Asian Development Bank, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council, the World Trade Organization and the South Pacific Forum as a dialogue partner, I cannot 3 see any reason why we should not deal directly with Taiwan on trade and economic matters. The world has witnessed once again the derailment of the peace process in the Middle East. We call on the leaders of both Israel and Palestine to cooperate with United Nations efforts to reach an amicable solution to avert further violence, and to focus on the path to peace. Papua New Guinea strongly believes that the rights of the Palestinian people over their homeland and their freedom to establish their own Government and identity are paramount among the conditions that could lead to enduring peace. We are encouraged to see positive signs of appeasement in Rwanda, Burundi and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Nevertheless, given the tense situation that exists in that region, we urge those in positions of authority, including all leaders in that part of the world, to resolve their differences peacefully to prevent further bloodshed. In this context, we are heartened to see the Organization of African Unity playing a critical role in the endeavour to bring about peace and stability in the Great Lakes region. The crisis in Sierra Leone needs urgent attention, and we join the Secretary-General’s call to the leaders of the military junta and support his continuing efforts to encourage them to respect the rule of law and make every effort to restore democracy in that country. On the regional front, Papua New Guinea is taking a major initiative in setting up the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council (APEC) regional centre in Port Moresby. We would like to offer our gratitude for the support given by the States members of the South Pacific Forum in our efforts to set up this centre. The objective of the APEC centre is to assist in the area of capacity-building in the economies of 13 small island developing States in our region as we prepare to meet the challenges of globalization and liberalization. We are also grateful for the support provided by the United Nations Development Programme. At the recent summit of the Heads of the South Pacific Forum countries, the leaders reaffirmed our commitment to maintaining a nuclear-free zone in the South Pacific consistent with the overall objectives of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We welcomed the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test- Ban Treaty and reiterated our support for banning the transboundary movement of radioactive and other hazardous wastes in the region, and in particular for the Vienna Convention on Civil Liability for Nuclear Damage and the draft Convention on Supplementary Funding. In this context, we welcome the ratification by the United Kingdom of the protocols to the South Pacific Nuclear-Free Zone Treaty, known as the Treaty of Rarotonga. We are still hopeful that the United States of America will do likewise, and call upon it to do so at the earliest possible opportunity. At the last session of the General Assembly, we sought and forged new agreements, including our relationship with the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. We also expressed our support for an international convention to ban all anti-personnel mines, and have participated in the Ottawa process, most recently at Oslo. Like other members of this body, Papua New Guinea is making the necessary arrangements to become a party to that historic Treaty when it opens for signature later this year. In a few months we will usher in the International Year of the Ocean. Like other South Pacific Forum countries, Papua New Guinea has an affinity for the sea which cannot be overstated. It is, for the greater part, the source of our livelihood. We urge the United Nations to continue to play a major role in ensuring global awareness of sustainable use, conservation and management of marine resources. In this regard, we call on the international community to coordinate efforts to implement the priorities agreed upon during the special session of the General Assembly on the environment and sustainable development. We are gravely concerned that much of the outcome of the special session will remain the province of historians and academics, if not given practical effect. We urge that greater attention be given to the special needs and concerns of the small island developing countries. An environmental issue of great importance and relevance to Papua New Guinea and other small island States in the South Pacific region is the impact of greenhouse gas emissions, which are causing rising sea levels and changing weather patterns in many member countries, especially low lying island nations. This issue was given priority attention at the recent South Pacific Forum meeting in Rarotonga, Cook Islands, where the Forum countries expressed deep concerns about the insufficient progress made by the countries which contribute significantly to greenhouse gas emissions. As a member of the South Pacific Forum, Papua New Guinea strongly urges all countries concerned to 4 make additional efforts in meeting commitments under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (FCCC). We also urge all parties to the FCCC to consider fully the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) draft protocol during the ongoing negotiations, especially at the forthcoming Kyoto conference, in order to pursue the greatest possible level of net reduction in global greenhouse gas emissions by means of a legally binding protocol or other legal instrument. On Bougainville, let me reassure this body that Papua New Guinea, as I stated earlier this year in the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, remains fully committed to a peaceful and enduring resolution of the crisis. It is absolutely clear that the people of Papua New Guinea, including the majority of Bougainvillians, want peace and will pursue a peaceful solution by every available means. As in the past, we will continue to give the people of Bougainville every opportunity to participate fully in the reconciliation process. My Government is mindful of the effects of the crisis on our region, particularly of the spillover effects on our close neighbours. We wish to take this opportunity to thank the neighbouring countries in our region for their assistance in the peace process. I would like to acknowledge the contributions of Australia and, in particular, New Zealand, in initiating and facilitating the peace conference of all Bougainvillian leaders which resulted in the signing of the Burnham Declaration last July. A follow-up meeting — Burnham Talks II — between Bougainvillian leaders and representatives of Papua New Guinea’s Government is currently under way in New Zealand. We are optimistic and confident that we can resolve the crisis within the framework of the Papua New Guinea Constitution. Let me also take this opportunity to thank, on behalf of my Government and people, the previous and current Governments of the Solomon Islands and their people for their tolerance and understanding, particularly when they have had to bear the full weight of the spillover effects. I want to thank them also for agreeing with us to put in place in the last 12 months two important bilateral treaties: the comprehensive framework treaty guiding bilateral relations and the basic border agreement. These treaties set the parameters within which our bilateral relations are conducted, including the legal mechanisms for consultation and dialogue relating to a more effective management of our common border, which is critical to the containment of the Bougainville crisis, including its spillover effects. My Government also offers its gratitude to the leaders of the South Pacific Forum for recognizing Bougainville as an integral part of Papua New Guinea, and for their acknowledgment of the peace efforts concerning Bougainville by all parties involved, including Bougainvillians and their leaders, the Papua New Guinea Government, and the Governments of the Solomon Islands, Australia and New Zealand. In conclusion, let me echo what other speakers have said before me. As we prepare to meet the dawn of the next millennium, let us commit ourselves to building genuine partnerships in development that will ensure a secure environment for our present and future generations. We do not and should not expect guarantees, but we shall look far and wide in our search for safeguards. We do not want and shall not seek handouts; however, we demand equity and greater participation to foster and expand opportunities for our peoples. It is only through the development of genuine partnerships and the enhancement of equity and justice in global trade and investments that we can improve the socio-economic conditions of our people, ensure their prosperity, and guarantee the safety of our global environment, without which there is no hope for the attainment of enduring peace in our societies today and in future. Only when such peace has been attained can we truly say that we have lived up to our obligations, for the interests and common good of humanity. ﻿It gives me particular pleasure to congratulate you, Sir, the distinguished representative of Ukraine, on your election to the responsible post of President of the fifty-second of the General Assembly of the United Nations. I am convinced that your rich and profound experience in diplomatic relations, together with your personal qualities, will facilitate the constructive work of this General Assembly session and make it an outstanding international event. The delegation of the Republic of Belarus is ready to contribute to your endeavours in any way required. I would also like to use this opportunity to say a word of gratitude to your predecessor, Mr. Razali Ismail, for his competent and efficient presidency during the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. Every day, international life and international relations acquire ever more multidimensional and ever deeper significance, with new meanings and trends in development that can no longer be constrained within the 7 criteria and standards of the twentieth century. We live at a time oriented towards the future. A fin de siècle mentality is not just a nostalgic feeling for the century passing away, but also embraces a deep concern for the years ahead. The destiny of mankind, however contradictory and diverse, and the interests of nations and States may become more amenable to one common denominator, are increasingly concerned with the well-being of humanity, and display numerous convergent features which make it possible now to discuss the opportunity for a new international order. Entering the twenty-first century, with its new international order, does not mean that we renounce the experience of the last 52 years in the development of the family of nations under one common programme, as set out for us by the founding fathers of the United Nations and outlined in its Charter. On the contrary, it means adjusting these lofty aims to the new realities of a multifaceted world and also making the Organization — no matter how different its separate parts are — the mainstream of human development, where the economic well-being of people brings to an end age-old ills such as starvation and epidemic diseases, as well as huge environmental threats, and which helps to achieve multilateral understanding between those participating in this development. Solving these problems is becoming the overriding ambition and the main goal and hope of the United Nations, as well as of mankind as a whole. Right now, the United Nations has started displaying its capacity to adapt its structure and policies to the demands of the future. The orientation of the United Nations towards the future is the overriding goal that was established for it during its fiftieth anniversary celebrations. The change of leadership and the measures that are now being undertaken in this direction give sufficient grounds for optimism. We declare our support for these goals and actions. With a sense of trust and the intention to contribute, we take note of the actions of the new Secretary-General, Mr. Annan, in regard to reform within the United Nations. In this respect, I would like to quote from a letter dated 5 September 1997 sent by the President of the Republic of Belarus, Mr. Lukashenka, to the Secretary-General: “These reforms are a timely and meaningful response to the objectives facing the United Nations during this complex period at the turning point of the millennia, including problems which ought to be solved with the purpose of enhancing the effectiveness of the United Nations system. “The Republic of Belarus is in favour of a pragmatic, comprehensive approach to United Nations reform which would provide for the strengthening, on the basis of the opportunities available, of the United Nations potential in peacekeeping, humanitarian and informational fields.” In our opinion, these measures are very important and represent an up-to-date response to the need to settle the issues coming before the United Nations during this complex historical period as we approach the end of the millennium. These issues need to be solved in order to enhance the functional efficiency of the family of the United Nations. When we speak of reform in the United Nations, we have in mind first and foremost an effective distribution of United Nations resources, the streamlining of the Organization’s administrative and organizational structures, and budgetary and structural reform of the United Nations Secretariat, as well as personnel adjustments to meet the challenges of the modern world. When addressing United Nations reform, we place special emphasis on the reform of the Security Council, which is one of the principal United Nations bodies, responsible for the maintenance of international peace and security. Extremely critical in this respect is, of course, the principle of balanced representation of all regional groups of United Nations Member States on the reformed Security Council. The Republic of Belarus is convinced that allocation of one more non-permanent seat on the Security Council to the Group of Eastern European States — whose membership has more than doubled in recent years — is in full compliance with the provisions of Article 23 of the United Nations Charter, which sets forth the principle of equitable geographical distribution. Among all the new realities that are being brought into the mosaic of international relations, efficient mechanisms for global and regional security still seem paramount. Belarus considers its national security to be inalienably connected and identified with the collective security system of the European continent. Each State has, of course, ample right independently to select the most efficient means of protecting its own national interests, including the right to participate in regional security organizations. For the last two years Belarus has displayed a firm stance against the expansion of the North Atlantic Treaty 8 Organization (NATO) as a military bloc. I hope for understanding on the part of the international community in this respect. In the event that we had on our western borders not the friendly sovereign Polish State we have now but a military organization, it would certainly push us to seriously analyse and reconsider our national security considerations. However, recently we have noticed developments inside the NATO structure itself. We took due note of several meetings of NATO member States regarding the transformation of the North Atlantic Cooperation Council into the Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council, as well as the transformation of the major military aims of NATO itself. Taking into account current realities, we would like to reiterate our position against NATO’s expansion as a military organization, but also to add to it that we are in favour of its development into a universal European organization for peace and security. It is with this intention that we have entered into negotiations with NATO and presented a programme for Belarusian participation in the Partnership for Peace. We sincerely hope that by developing a more constructive approach we will reach a mutual understanding, which could be reinforced by some mutual obligations. We would also like to state that with this evolution of NATO and a thorough analysis of existing world and regional security systems and treaties, further emphasis should be attached to well-established regional organizations such as the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and to their closer cooperation with the United Nations and its specialized agencies. As to the OSCE, we feel certain that it has already accumulated profound experience and skills in tackling many important security issues and is able to make a major contribution to strengthening peace and security on the continent. Therefore, the Republic of Belarus readily supports the initiatives of Russia and the Netherlands concerning a number of special events to commemorate the one hundredth anniversary of the First Peace Conference. Should this conference take place in 1999, it would be an important opportunity to discuss the complex problems of peaceful cooperation between Member States and to find and elaborate means to constructively handle major issues of contention and also to strengthen the legal foundations of international actions for peace. I should like to state that the Republic of Belarus, as one of the founding Members of the United Nations, has always spoken strongly in favour of the peaceful regulation of military conflicts in different regions of the globe and of elaborating new and efficient measures to prevent the emergence of new crisis situations. That is why we share the approach of many who have spoken here, when they expressed concern about the development of the situation in the Middle East. It is our opinion that the continuation of the Arab-Israeli dialogue, which will live up to the agreements previously reached, is a must to stop terrorism in this region, to put an end to the non-stop bloodletting of innocent people and to establish a firm and lasting peace. The same can also be said of the Balkans, which is now one of the hottest spots in the European region. We are convinced that lasting peace in the former Yugoslavia is possible only under conditions where violence is renounced and where the parties involved settle their conflicts in a peaceful manner. The Republic of Belarus invites the General Assembly to enable the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, as a founding Member, to resume its participation in the work of the General Assembly and other bodies of the United Nations. Unfortunately, conflicts, including military clashes, are still a reality of humanity’s everyday existence. We call upon the Security Council to be more prudent in handling these conflicts, to be more diligent in seeking peaceful means to regulate them, avoiding at all costs economic destruction as well as the political and moral damage that comes with attempts to apply sanctions. I should like to seize this opportunity to confirm the willingness of the Government of the Republic of Belarus to host the Minsk international Conference on conflict settlement in Nagorny Karabakh. As members know, Belarus has always been among those nations which have spoken and acted strongly to make effective measures undertaken by the United Nations in the field of disarmament. I should like to remind the Assembly that Belarus was one of the first Commonwealth of Independent States countries, after the breakup of the Soviet Union, to withdraw nuclear weapons from its territory. Belarus aims to achieve further progress in the field of disarmament, in particular by banning chemical, bacteriological and other toxic weapons, by putting an end to research into new weapons 9 of mass destruction, and by preventing an arms race in space. Awareness of these aims means a more secure future for our children. The Belarusian position on disarmament issues is firm and logically predictable. Apart from our refusal to station nuclear weapons on our soil, we have suggested creating a nuclear-free zone in the centre of Europe. I must admit that so far the response to this initiative has been tepid, at best. But I would also reiterate that no matter the tepid response, only the creation of regions entirely free from nuclear weapons and the nuclear threat will facilitate each important step along the road to the eventual comprehensive renouncement of nuclear weapons. Apart from general support for the reform programmes of the United Nations, I should like to emphasize the particularly positive approach of Belarus to the idea and the philosophy of sustainable development. Pursuant to the decisions and recommendations adopted by the Rio 1992 Earth Summit, the Government of the Republic of Belarus worked out a national strategy for sustainable development, whose outline was presented to the General Assembly’s special session last June. We appreciate the great assistance rendered to us by the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Secretariat and the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, which helped us to hold our conference on sustainable development in Minsk in April 1997, which was attended by representatives of 30 countries and more than 30 international organizations. That conference was an important landmark on the path to working out an international strategy for sustainable development and outlined many of the important issues that are now faced by countries in a period of transition. I sincerely believe that the sustainable development programme launched by the United Nations will encourage the participation of other multilateral organizations in its implementation, in particular, the World Trade Organization, which could advance reforms in countries whose economies are in transition by accepting them as full members. We fervently hope that the Agenda for Development, as a long-term policy of the United Nations, will not only provide reliable mechanisms to deal with international catastrophes, such as the Chernobyl accident and others, but will also help establish a system to prevent such catastrophes and eliminate their consequences in all parts of the world. I should like to emphasize that the Chernobyl-related activities of the United Nations as well as the international assistance in mitigating the consequences of that nuclear catastrophe are highly appreciated by the people of Belarus. Yet the assistance is needed right now — today — though we will need it in the future as well. That is a tragic reality the Republic of Belarus is living through. As members are aware, sometimes and in some areas Belarus has been the object of criticism because of the slowness of reform and democratic transformations. Concern has been expressed regarding certain internal developments in the Republic of Belarus. While I would certainly acknowledge that some of the international community’s concern has been justified, I would like very much to say that the Republic of Belarus is a sovereign State that develops its own policy with due regard for the opportunities — economic, social, moral and psychological — of its citizens, within the limits of international patterns of behaviour and with respect for human rights and personal freedoms. It has been an uneasy path, but so far the Republic of Belarus has avoided the pitfalls in economic and political areas, and with the due assistance of the international community expects to attain certain standards compatible with the developed countries of the world. Now we are practically the only country of the Commonwealth of Independent States that had a stable economic growth of about 16 per cent during the first half of this year; we have arrested the decrease in volumes of industrial production and we are a country free from religious, ethnic or civil strife. Of course, there are many difficulties still ahead of us. But as long as a consensus of the people is secured on major development programmes and aims, the institutes of government and democracy are stable, and international cooperation proceeds within acceptable international norms. There is hope that we shall accomplish the goals set before us. Difficult as it might be, we have made quite a few positive steps to assure the United Nations that we are seriously focused on strengthening our participation in this international body. No matter what objective financial or other economic difficulties Belarus is experiencing, we seek to fulfil our financial obligations before the United Nations. This year, the Government of Belarus has allotted the first instalment to gradually liquidate our arrears to the regular United Nations budget, and before the year is over we plan to contribute another $5 million. However, we hope more careful consideration can be 10 given to reaching a fair solution in the settlement of the issue related to the payment by Belarus of its arrears in financial contributions to the United Nations regular budget and financing the United Nations peacekeeping operations. I would take up this issue, not to emphasize the need to avoid payments, but to invite the international community to distinguish between the cases when payment is not made due to objective difficulties and when it results from the absence of will on the part of some Member States to contribute in accordance with the principle of the capacity to pay, or is an attempt to exert pressure on the United Nations and the policy it implements. There must be a common quest for special solutions to further revise the scale of assessments, to reconstruct debt in cases where economic conditions of this or that Member State do not allow for the regular payment to be made in time. During the limited time afforded to us, it is not possible to cover the whole range of problems which confront the United Nations and which involve special actions and responsibilities of Member States. I have outlined only those which the Government of Belarus considers of the first priority to be addressed in order to secure the normal functioning of the United Nations. I would like to close my statement on a note of cautious optimism. There are many indicators that the United Nations is advancing in the right direction, and the participation of Member States in the United Nations programmes of settling major global issues is a shade better today than it was yesterday. With all those shades blending into a positive optimistic colour, the future of humanity is more secure today than it was yesterday, and certainly a lot more secure than it was before yesterday.  ﻿It gives me great pleasure to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty- second session. I am confident that your political experience will help you conduct the work of the session wisely and successfully. I should also like to commend your predecessor, His Excellency Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia, for the excellent way in which he presided over the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. I also wish to extend our congratulations to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, on his election to his current position, and to express our appreciation for his programme for the reform of the Organization. He can be assured of our full support for any measures he takes to that end. As we approach a new millennium, the world is witnessing a series of internal and external conflicts that represent a great regression when compared to the optimistic expectations that followed the end of the cold war and the collapse of ideological conflicts. A new world characterized by balance and equitable relations among States was expected to emerge, with a view to the creation of innovative cooperation among our States and peoples in different areas of concern. However, I regret to say that the world is still facing severe problems, such as political conflict, poverty, famine and intensive migratory movements. These are the result of poor economic conditions, refugee flows caused by wars, the deterioration of the environment, trafficking in illicit drugs and the proliferation of organized crime. In the context of these changes, and more than half a century after the United Nations was established, there is an urgent need for the Organization to undergo drastic reforms, both structural and functional, so as to establish rules and principles for a new international order free of double standards. Such a new order would allow us to rise to the new challenges and achieve the goals set forth in the Charter more than 50 years ago for the maintenance of international peace and security and the intensification of international cooperation for the benefit of the peoples of the world. To this end, the process of reform must begin by activating the role of the General Assembly and enabling it to fulfil its duty in an effective manner that would give its democratic resolutions vitality and credibility before international public opinion. The Security Council must also be reformed, so that it can carry out the role it has been entrusted with, because it has a special status among the United Nations bodies, as defined in the Charter. In our view, this cannot be achieved except through a general agreement that would regulate the use of the veto power, limiting such use to cases covered by Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter, namely, threats to international peace. In order for the Security Council to reflect the new political and economic realities of a changing world, it must increase the number of its non-permanent members to provide for just and balanced representation and to enable the Council to deal with the new international realities and shoulder its responsibilities by becoming more democratic through the adoption of a rotation system, not limiting membership to certain States, and by giving all States the opportunity to participate in its work and assume their share of international responsibility. Although we understand the opinions advocating an increase in the number of permanent members, we believe that the coexistence of permanent members that have the power of veto with permanent members that do not, plus non-permanent members, runs counter to the concepts of equality among States, geographic and cultural representation and international participation. It also runs counter to the principle of democratic decision-making. In order to achieve the required balance, fairness, justice, equality and reason call for an increase in Security Council membership for Asia, Africa and Latin America. Together, those three continents have the majority of world population and States. Nevertheless, their representation on the Security Council is less than 50 per cent. In order for the Secretary-General to be able to carry out the reforms that fall within his competence, the financial crisis of the United Nations must be addressed by making Member States honour their legal commitments and pay their dues without delay. In this regard, we would like to express our deep gratitude to Mr. Ted Turner for his generous donation to some United Nations humanitarian programmes. We hope this will be an encouraging initiative for others to follow. The task of maintaining international peace and security has particular importance. Therefore, measures recommended by the General Assembly or taken by the Security Council should not be limited to post-conflict or war situations. More attention should be given to appropriate and timely preventive measures, because we believe that early measures adopted by the international community are the ideal way to avert the outbreak of conflicts and wars and to avoid taking the necessary political and military measures in the aftermath of the conflict — let alone imposing half solutions that are often unfair. The question of disarmament plays an essential role in building the foundation of international peace and security. To achieve this goal, we believe that renewing the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) indefinitely is a decision that requires more support and endorsement, so that the Treaty can acquire a universal character, with the adherence of all States. In this context, the State of Qatar affirms that Israel should adhere to that Treaty and should place its nuclear facilities under the International Atomic Energy Agency’s safeguards regime. This will be a basic step towards establishing a zone free from nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East. It would also contribute to achieving equitable and balanced peace and stability in that important area of the world so that there would be no multiple criteria for defining the conduct of States. In the same context, we cannot fail to mention the special importance of the Convention to ban anti- personnel mines, which was finalized in Oslo recently. It will be ready for signature in Ottawa next December. We hope it will be signed by all States. The world has witnessed fundamental economic changes, such as the end of State control of economic life in many States, the withering away of numerous restraints on international trade, the easy transfer of capital and huge investments across the world. Meanwhile, many economies in developing countries are still deteriorating. This requires that urgent and effective solutions be provided by the international community to enable those States to progress and develop their societies through building strong and effective economies. Such an endeavour requires us to take a new look at expenditures on armaments, in order to save such huge sums and allocate them to supporting education and health programmes. This would also enable us to address the problems of poverty and the environment and to develop the economies of developing nations. This is an absolute necessity for any new international economic order based on integration and balance, and is capable of devising desired solutions for the aforementioned problems. The problems of poverty, backwardness and lack of access to education and medical care are among the problems that affect developing countries. The societies of such States also suffer from a population explosion that is disproportionate to their resources. At the same time, fortunes are being wasted on armaments, arms races or 2 luxuries. This causes huge discrepancies in consumption rates between the peoples of rich countries and those of poor countries. Such problems compel us to be fully aware of the fact that solving them requires reconsidering the question of military expenditures. It is no secret to anybody in authority that while the programmes implemented by the United Nations Children’s Fund, the United Nations Development Programme and the World Food Programme cost less than $4.6 billion a year, Governments all over the world are spending about $800 billion every year on armaments, while 1.3 billion people are still living in a state of abject poverty. Now I would like to address the situation in the Middle East and the crisis of the peace process. The Israeli Government is still stalling in the implementation of agreements and putting impediments and obstacles in the way of achieving a just and comprehensive peace. Israel is undermining the peace process by building settlements, reneging on agreements and commitments reached with the Palestinian Authority, imposing a blockade on the Palestinian people, depriving them of their rights and flouting international legality. This generates violence and counter-violence. The Israeli policy runs counter to General Assembly resolutions and Security Council resolutions, especially resolutions 242 (1967), 271 (1969), 298 (1971), 478 (1980) and 672 (1990). They all provide that all legislative and administrative measures taken by Israel aimed at altering the legal status and demographic composition of the occupied Arab territories, including the city of Jerusalem, are null and void, and have no legal relevance. They also run counter to the Fourth Geneva Convention of 1949 concerning the protection of civilians and their properties in time of war. Therefore, the international community is called upon to exert pressure on the Israeli Government to make it desist immediately from implementing the policies that jeopardize the peace process as a whole. The Arab leaders affirmed last year at the Cairo summit that peace in the Middle East is a strategic option. They underlined the importance of having all the parties committed to the Madrid formula that calls for a peace based on the principle of land for peace. This means that Israel should withdraw completely from all the occupied Palestinian and Arab territories, including East Jerusalem, to enable the Palestinian people to establish their independent State, with Arab Jerusalem as its capital. It should also withdraw completely from the Syrian Golan and from southern Lebanon to the internationally recognized borders, in keeping with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978). There has been a noticeable improvement over the last five years on the road to achieving a just and comprehensive peace in the Middle East. It started with the Madrid Conference and moved on to Oslo and the subsequent peace accords. Several economic conferences were held to promote the Middle East peace process and to contribute to moving it forward by underscoring the common interests of the peoples of the region. To that effect, arrangements are being made to hold a fourth economic summit conference for the Middle East and North Africa next November in Doha, the capital of my country. In this connection, I would emphasize that the State of Qatar has no private interest in acting as host for this conference. Our interest in holding it is based on the following reasons. First, we believe that peace is a strategic choice that the Arab countries have adopted since the Madrid Conference. Secondly, such a conference would manifest our desire for the peace process to continue. Failure of the peace process would have serious implications and would threaten peace both at the regional and at the international level. Thirdly, our region has witnessed many wars in past years, the last of which was the 1991 Gulf War, which have impeded economic and political progress in our region and imposed on us huge expenditures on armaments at the expense of the social development and well-being of our peoples. Fourthly, at the 1995 Amman Economic Summit the State of Qatar committed itself to acting as host to the fourth summit conference, and honouring that commitment is a question of our credibility as a State that respects its commitments. Some are of the opinion that the conference should be cancelled due to current Israeli policy that does not respect undertakings and agreements, flouts international legality and tries to marginalize the role of the United Nations. Although we in Qatar understand the reasons behind such an opinion, which calls for the cancellation of the conference in response to the practices of the Israeli Government, which has not respected its 3 international commitments, we do respect our international commitments, and we believe that no State should have veto power with regard to the peace process. We have therefore decided to act as host to the conference on its appointed date. If it does not prove to be successful and fails to achieve the desired results, the Government of Israel will bear sole responsibility. The State of Qatar welcomes the position of the United States of America, as expressed by its Secretary of State during our meeting in Saudi Arabia and here in New York. We also welcome the resolve it has shown in dealing with the disruption of the peace process in the Middle East, as well as the fact that it has underlined the principle of land for peace, the relevant resolutions of the Security Council and the inadmissibility of taking unilateral measures that run counter to the peace process. My country also appreciates the position of the States of the European Union, as well as the Russian Federation for their support of the peace process in the Middle East. The State of Qatar views with satisfaction and appreciation the positions taken by States that support the Middle East peace process and reject the Israeli settlement policies that are obstructing that process. At the same time, my country stresses the importance of the role of the United Nations in the Middle East peace process and opposes any attempts to exclude it. The State of Qatar joins the other fraternal members of the Gulf Cooperation Council in their endeavour to promote security and stability in the Gulf region, which is of strategic and vital importance to the entire world. The State of Qatar is making a constructive effort in that context with the aim of establishing good and constructive relations with all countries of the region on the basis of good-neighbourliness, mutual respect, non-intervention in the internal affairs of others, respect for international legality and the settlement of disputes through peaceful means, dialogue and mediation or by arbitration under international law. The State of Qatar supports the settlement of the dispute between the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran over the three islands of Abu Musa and Greater and Lesser Tunb by those means. My Government and people have expressed their fraternal feelings and strong empathy towards the brotherly people of Iraq, who are living in extremely difficult circumstances resulting from the sanctions imposed on them. We have therefore welcomed the oil-for-food agreement between the United Nations and Iraq to alleviate the suffering of the fraternal people of Iraq and to provide them with such basic necessities as food and medicine. My Government has also emphasized the importance of respecting Iraq’s sovereignty, territorial integrity and regional security. We condemn any foreign interference in its internal affairs. In the same context, my Government affirms the importance of implementation by the Government of Iraq of the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, in particular those concerning the release of Kuwaiti prisoners and detainees and other nationals in the same conditions. Such steps would help the international community to lift the embargo imposed on Iraq and would also enable Iraq to carry out a constructive role in achieving security, stability and rehabilitation in the region. My Government also expresses its concern for the suffering to which the brotherly people of Libya are being subjected due to the sanctions imposed against that country because of the Lockerbie issue. In that connection, the State of Qatar calls for the creation of a uniform and agreed regime for imposing sanctions and of mechanisms to lift them subsequently in a manner that does not distinguish among States and peoples and that strikes a balance between international interests, on the one hand, and the suffering to which peoples are subjected, on the other. Last week the Security Council devoted a meeting to addressing the problems of disputes and wars in some African countries. It considered ways of containing and solving such problems. The State of Qatar, which has fraternal relations with the African countries, is pained to witness the current state of affairs in States such as the Sudan, Somalia, the Comoros, Rwanda, Sierra Leone and the Congo. We believe that the African States are capable of overcoming their plight if they receive the necessary international support, particularly for the purpose of improving their economies and the transfer of technology in an international partnership in which all would participate. My country was one of the first to welcome the Dayton Peace Agreement because we believe in the importance of peace and cooperation in the Balkans. We have therefore supported the reconstruction of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have also made contacts with our neighbour countries to urge them to cooperate with each other to help rehabilitate the region, develop its resources, link it to the international economy and improve the situation of its peoples. 4 In conclusion, I would like to point out that in order to solve the problems the world is facing it is imperative for us to work together for the benefit of mankind. Address by The Honourable Edison James, Prime Minister and Minister for External Affairs, Legal Affairs, Labour and Immigration of the Commonwealth of Dominica  ﻿I would like to begin by congratulating the President on his unanimous election to preside over the fifty-second session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. It is my hope that at this session the Assembly will be successful in bringing nations closer to each other and in finding ways to address the challenges that face all countries and nations, north and south, east and west. I also wish to congratulate his predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia, for the manner in which he carried out his duties. We mark this year the twentieth anniversary of the peace initiative of the late Prime Minister of Israel, Menachem Begin, and the late President of Egypt, Anwar Sadat. Those leaders, with their historic decision and their courageous leadership, pioneered the way towards the first peace treaty between Israel and an Arab neighbour, Egypt. Throughout their entire history, the people of Israel have aspired to live in peace. Together with our constant call for peace with our neighbours, we have not spared any effort to seek, whether through direct or indirect contacts, a partner in this effort. Today, too, we continue to seek channels for dialogue and to build bridges to peace. In recent years, since 1991, after the principles for negotiating peace in the Middle East were laid down at Madrid, we have achieved a number of important advances with the establishment of full peace between Israel and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the signing of interim accords with the Palestinians. Nevertheless, the road to full peace is still long, and negotiations with the Palestinians and with Syria and Lebanon still lie ahead of us. Immediately after the last elections, the Government of Israel accepted the need to continue to advance the Oslo accords and has acted to implement them. In the past year we have spared no effort to implement those accords, but, unfortunately, the trust that is the lifeblood of the entire process has been undermined as a result of the failure of the Palestinians to carry out their commitments according to the agreements they have signed. In the past year, while pursuing these efforts, we have endured many tests and have suffered ongoing terrorist attacks and bloodshed. Our deep-rooted aspiration for peace, security and tranquillity has been stained by the shedding of innocent blood, by the murder of men, women and children cut down by barbaric terrorist attacks. Yet despite our deep sorrow and mourning over the loss of those innocent lives, the hope for peace has not been extinguished in the hearts of the citizens of Israel. The citizens of Israel have taken upon themselves great risks for peace, but there is none among them who is willing to continue to pay the bloody price that is being demanded in the name of peace. We must break this tragic and violent cycle. It is only through joint action in confronting the terror that trust will be re-established and the doubts regarding intentions be removed. As I stated in my remarks at the fifty-first session of this Assembly, all Israel is united in its deep desire for peace and for a life of calm and security. In Israel, both right and left are united in this quest. If trust can be restored, if the principle of reciprocity is honoured, it will be possible for us to proceed. We have already proved our willingness to do so, through our decisions and actions since taking office and in the signing and implementation of the Hebron agreement in all its aspects. Peace cannot live side by side with continued incitement, hostility, violence and terror. Peace means, in essence, the unequivocal and irreversible abandonment of 25 violence. Dialogue, negotiation, compromise and the honouring of agreements — those are the path to peace. These principles apply throughout the world and must apply also in the Middle East. The existence of two parallel tracks, one on which negotiations are pursued while a second track of violence, terror and bloodshed continues unimpeded, is totally unacceptable. This is a direct challenge and affront to the very concept of peace. Terror does not suddenly erupt from nowhere. It is not a spontaneous phenomenon. Too often we have seen terrorist leaders and their organizations adopt the facade of innocent and peaceful organizations, charitable and welfare organizations, while under this cover they contribute to the preparation and perpetration of vicious terrorist attacks. Terror can be likened to a volcano ready to erupt at any moment, whose boiling lava threatens to destroy all who lie in its path. Those who resort to terror are seeking not only to kill Israelis but also to hurt their own brethren. Terror cannot be accepted as a legitimate tool for resolving differences. It must be rejected, absolutely and unequivocally, and it must be fought unrelentingly. We will not agree to live under its constant threat. The words of the President of the United States and of the Foreign Minister of Russia at this Assembly just a few days ago are important and should guide us all in this matter. I quote President Clinton when he spoke from this very rostrum: “terrorism is always a crime and never a justifiable political act.” [See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-second Session, Plenary Meetings, 5th meeting] Thus, the international community bears the responsibility for ensuring that terrorism enjoys no political support, recognition or legitimacy, not even implicitly. In the 1993 Oslo accords, the Palestinian Authority and Arafat, its leader, undertook in the name of the Palestinian people to fight terrorism. They reaffirmed this commitment again in the 1995 Interim Agreement, again one year ago at the Washington summit and again in the Hebron agreement. Much to our consternation, it has been proved that this commitment has not been upheld as required, thus causing the present crisis of confidence. Israel stands firmly upon its call to the Palestinian Authority to fulfil its promise to fight relentlessly against terror. The Authority must act jointly and in full cooperation with us against terrorism and violence. We seek neither to dictate nor to coerce. We seek merely the implementation of signed agreements. The fight against terror, in our humble opinion, is also in the Palestinian interest. In response to the repeated crises in the process caused by the failure of the Palestinian Authority to live up to its commitments, Israel proposes a binding code of conduct for relations between us. This code should include, first, the rejection of violence as a means for achieving political goals; secondly, preservation of the framework of direct negotiations and agreement to refrain from attempts to transfer disputes and negotiations onto the international stage; thirdly, the institutionalization of permanent channels of communication, including in times of crisis; fourthly, a cessation of incitement and the call to violence and jihad, and their replacement with the language of reconciliation and mutual respect; and, fifthly, the advancement and encouragement of normalization and support for regional activities. The purpose of this code of conduct is to facilitate uninterrupted negotiations and crisis management, and to create an atmosphere of dialogue. This code must respond to the sensitivities and needs of both sides. We believe that the adoption of the above principles will allow us to overcome the present crisis and help in preventing future ones as the negotiations proceed. These rules of the game will also contribute to renewed trust between the leaders and greater confidence between the peoples. In the wake of the visit to the Middle East of the United States Secretary of State, renewed agreement has been reached to continue the efforts at restoring the peace process to its proper track. We have been conducting intensive talks in recent days, with the assistance of the United States, both in Washington and here, with a view to resuming the negotiations and advancing our efforts to reach a permanent settlement with the Palestinians. Israel values and appreciates the action of the United States Secretary of State and her commitment and efforts to extricate the peace process from its current impasse, to bring the parties closer together and to ensure the success of the negotiations. We are fully committed to these efforts. 26 Israel reaffirms its proposal to conduct accelerated negotiations, according to an agreed timetable, on permanent status. We propose conducting negotiations in which the sides will agree upon the desired outcomes and the way towards achieving them. This proposal is intended to hasten the attainment of a peaceful settlement, not to delay it. This is also our call and our proposal to the Palestinian Authority. The international community can play an important role in facilitating the dialogue between the sides, which will make it possible for us to resolve our differences through direct negotiations. It is only through direct negotiations that we can bring this process to a successful conclusion. One-sided international declarations, dictates or pressures will not help. Attempts to internationalize the dispute and to transfer the arena of negotiations to the United Nations and other international forums only serve to create unnecessary obstacles and to make already entrenched positions more rigid. The comprehensive peace we yearn for will not be achieved until we reach peace agreements with Syria and Lebanon. It is imperative to reach understandings and agreement that will enable us to renew negotiations and to resolve all the matters at issue between us. We expect to find in Syria and its leadership a partner in the search for a just peace. If Syria has indeed made a strategic choice in favour of peace — the “peace of the brave”, as claimed by its leadership — then we must explore together every possible avenue, at any place and at any time, for renewing the talks between us. Israel cannot accept the continued violence and terror on its northern border. The terrorist activities of organizations such as Hezbollah and the fear of Katyusha rockets and attacks upon our cities and towns bear the threat of ongoing regional tension and continued bloodshed. There is no territorial dispute between Israel and Lebanon. We wish to see a sovereign, free and independent Lebanon acting determinedly against the terrorist organizations that operate from its territory. If we are to reach peace, we cannot make do only with agreements and contracts. The reality of peace means normalization, open borders, freedom of movement, commerce and cooperation for the benefit of the entire region. These are the soul and essence of peace. Normalization is not a prize or a gift for Israel alone. The decisions of the Foreign Ministers of the Arab League at their recent meeting in Cairo, just over one week ago, stand in direct contradiction to the aspirations for peace and undermine its foundations. The attempts to prevent normalization with Israel, to freeze the level of existing relations with it, to close liaison and interests offices between Israel and Arab neighbours and to reactivate the Arab boycott add up, in practice, to a boycott of peace itself. This is a destructive policy which is reversing the process. The ongoing and intentional freeze of the multilateral talks also has a deleterious effect on the entrenchment of peace. The multilateral talks were meant and should serve as a platform and incentive for building peace. We must promote the bilateral and multilateral channels alike and not make one conditional upon the other, nor create further obstacles and barriers on the road to peace. The question mark hanging over the regional economic conference scheduled to take place later this year in Doha, Qatar, is further evidence of this negative drive. The countries of the Middle East that are party to the peace effort have a common interest in regional stability and the advancement of prosperity and well- being for all the nations of the region. We face together the growing shortage of water and the ever-expanding desert. We are also facing dangers from within our region that threaten to undermine the stability of the regimes of various nations and to plunge the entire region into violence, war and bloodshed. It was only a few years ago that the entire world was forced into forming a coalition to combat an aggressive dictator who sought to conquer a neighbouring country and to terrorize our entire region. Today, we face new and even more extreme dangers, but the lessons of recent experience have not been learned and many countries turn a blind eye to the threat. The leadership of Iran continues to speak in terms that threaten the State of Israel and call for its destruction. Yet the international community continues to remain deaf and refuses to speak out against Iran's policies, declarations and actions. Iran's efforts, like those of Iraq, to acquire operational weapons of mass destruction of all kinds represent the greatest threat to security and stability in the Middle East and beyond. The ramifications of Iran's weapons programme extend far beyond the geographical confines of our region. They threaten the security of other 27 members of the international community and their interests. Israel reiterates its call to the members of the international family of nations — and at their head the United States, Russia and the members of the European Union and of the Commonwealth of Independent States — to exercise the full weight of their influence and to take concrete steps to prevent this development, which represents a threat to the existence of the State of Israel. After the establishment, as we hope, of peace treaties between Israel and every country of the region, it will be possible to create a regional security system that would provide multilateral and shared solutions to the range of security problems in the Middle East, including a mutually and effectively verifiable Middle East free of chemical, biological and nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles. These are our goals and we must act to achieve them. Israel is an active and responsible member of the family of nations represented in this body. However, 50 years after the United Nations adopted, on 29 November 1947, the resolution calling for the establishment of the State of Israel, we are still denied our equal rights in this Organization. We attach great importance to the fundamental reform of the United Nations work. We also share the opinion of other United Nations Member countries that believe that the Organization urgently requires greater efficiency and a redirecting of its valuable but limited resources towards its truly important tasks. At the same time, we are convinced that no reform can be completed so long as the question of Israel's membership of a regional group remains unresolved. We call upon this Organization to correct this anomaly. Much to our chagrin, in the last year we have seen an intensification of the political campaign waged against Israel at the United Nations. This campaign only impedes the peace process and further undermines confidence between the parties. We call upon the Member States to refrain from lending their support to such resolutions. The time has come for this Assembly to reduce the number of resolutions on the Middle East that it adopts each year and to contribute positively to creating an atmosphere conducive to direct negotiations between the parties. As part of Israel's international and regional commitment and of its credo as a State, we are engaged in cooperative programmes with many countries, with which we share the experience and knowledge we have acquired in various fields. Israel attaches great importance to its international cooperation programme and to assisting various peoples to address the challenges of development and the hazards of nature, hunger and disease. Over more than three decades, tens of thousands of trainees have participated in courses in Israel and in their own countries within the framework of Israel's cooperation and assistance programme in the fields of education, health, agriculture, industry, social affairs and leadership. We are especially proud of the participation in recent years of trainees from Arab countries, amongst them Palestinians. These trainees are emissaries of goodwill, ambassadors of peace, who bear with them the message and the great hope of human well-being. As in the words of the prophet: “Each shall help his neighbour and make him strong”. This year, the Jewish people in Israel and around the world marks the jubilee of its national revival. Fifty years ago, the Jewish people restored its national sovereignty in its ancient homeland. Throughout the dark days of our 2,000-year dispersion, we dreamt of the day that we would renew our national life in the land of our forefathers, the land of Israel. It is the privilege of our generation to fulfil this aspiration. The Jewish people has returned and built up its land. The Jewish people is once again gathering in its ancient home and has succeeded in building a vibrant and democratic society, a flourishing economy, science, research and industry. For the past 50 years, we have laboured to ensure Israel's security and independence, while always seeking peace and good-neighbourly relations in our region. Fifty years on, the State of Israel is an irremovable reality. This week, we mark the beginning of the Jewish new year. At this holy time, every Jew turns his eye towards the heavens with a prayer in his heart for the peace of the world, the end of misery and a new dawn of hope for all. On this day of remembrance, the blow of the shofar is accompanied by the prayer: “may the year and its troubles pass and a new year and its blessings begin”. ﻿Ernesto Che Guevara, Commander, Minister and head of the Cuban delegation to the nineteenth session of the General Assembly, stated 33 years ago, from this very rostrum: “We wish to see this Assembly stretch its limbs and march forward; we want the Committees to begin their work, which should not stop at the first confrontation.” [Official Records of the General Assembly, Nineteenth Session, Plenary Meetings, 1299th meeting, para. 81] And, as if he could already see the present, he added: “Imperialism seeks to convert this meeting into a pointless competition in oratory, to prevent it from solving the serious problems of the world; that design we must frustrate.” (Ibid.) At that time, on our planet some 700 million people were illiterate; 200 million were unemployed; and over 1 billion were eking out a precarious existence. That reality contravened the principle that humans are the source of development, as well as its agents and beneficiaries, and should be considered, above all, as the justification and purpose of development. As the years went by, the situation worsened. Today, not only are the industrialized nations imposing conditions on or denying outright a meagre share of their plentiful resources as official development assistance for the development of the poorest nations, but some of them, like ostriches, are burying their head in the sand and disregarding that obligation. Although missions to Mars are widely publicized and assurances are given that the world economy is growing, the distressing truth remains that today in the world a billion people are illiterate; as many are unemployed or underemployed; and more than 2 billion are living under subhuman conditions. Among these, we note with dismay, are the 425,000 children worldwide who, since Tuesday, 16 September, when this session started, have died from preventable diseases. Those 425,000 children were sacrificed in the name of efficiency, quality and consumption — a pattern of consumption that today requires an irrational and unsustainable development, to which those children never even had access. Time is not just slipping by; we are letting it slip through our fingers. With it, we are losing also our opportunities to save our planet, which is sick and beset in a thousand ways because the men and women who have been gathering here for the last 52 years on behalf of our peoples have in many cases been unable consistently to translate words into deeds. Why, on the threshold of a new century, should we allow such a crime to take place? Where is that promised land, that higher society, that paradise craved by millions of human beings? How can we dream today, when the overwhelming majority of human beings cannot even sleep because violence, hunger and disease keep them awake? Over five decades ago, the nations of the world decided to unite against war and to work in peace for progress and cooperation among peoples. But since then, no one has enjoyed real and lasting peace. As many people have become the victims of violence and armed conflicts in the wake of the fall of the Berlin Wall as were killed in the 15-year Viet Nam war. Our memory has become so short that those same people who raised their voices against the German capital’s concrete wall now justify, promote and even stand up for a 10-times larger and much more heavily fortified wall that would divide the poor South from the developed North, along the Rio Grande all the way to Baja California, and which very few dare to denounce. Likewise, an absurd hypocrisy allows military expenditures to be the number one business in the world, with close to $900 billion in circulation, followed by drug smuggling, with upwards of $500 billion, while as much money is invested in a modern bomber as would be required to relieve the foreign debt of the 20 countries most heavily burdened by that scourge. “Divide and conquer”: the Roman maxim for subduing the ancient world is increasingly and ever more forcefully becoming the slogan of the era of outer space 27 and information superhighways. The only form of concerted action that seems to be fully consolidated is the one that, from here, proposes and undertakes humanitarian interventions and operations aimed at enforcing, maintaining or consolidating peace and democracy in the wake of conflicts; preventive and early-warning actions; and all those various ways of disguising new wars. If we fail to stop this, the upcoming third millennium will not find peaceful and generous comity among nations. Nor will it bring any closer the anticipated miracle of multiplying loaves and fishes for all through development and rational exchange. On the contrary, consumerism, environmental deterioration, illiteracy, xenophobia, terrorism, drug addiction, famine, AIDS, prostitution and all those visible symptoms of the human rationality immunodeficiency syndrome that our planet is suffering from will devour us. Can it be, as one poet says, that people are mean and undeserving and we should therefore accept the idea that the already foreseen end of history will be followed by the end of the human race? If we resign ourselves to the fact that 285 people can possess riches equal to the ill-apportioned wealth of 2.5 billion other human beings, it might be that a doomsday of similar proportions awaits us should we fail to change the course of events. Just one detail: were it not for the 2.5 billion people doomed to sacrifice, it would be very unlikely that the other 285 people could survive, regardless of how much more wealth they would be able to accumulate. All these problems belong to this world, not another. They are ours, as much as these “Disunited Nations”, which we are unable to cast into a true gathering of Governments and peoples designed to change and save our planet. In the light of these problems, many of us wonder whether the words of a powerful minority are worth more than the lives of that overwhelming majority of human beings who for many reasons are not only deprived of their right to say a word, but also lack the resolution and the power to exercise that right when they do have it. We also wonder how there can be talk of multilateralism when we see an endlessly increasing unilateralism and when the so-called de-ideologized world imposes on us a sole and exclusive ideology. Something is wrong when speeches on plurality are made while attempts are made to impose uniformity on the world; things are even worse if, instead of everyone having the same rights and duties — as should be the case — in fact, a few have more and more rights whereas the vast majority only get more and more duties. We dedicated the decade which is just concluding to international law with a view to honouring it with concrete actions. However, in this very building there have been talks and negotiations about, and even votes against, these principles and international law itself. We should ask ourselves once again when we will actually conclude the agreements on nuclear disarmament, and when the use of force or threats will be once and for all banned in international relations. Why allow certain Powers to pursue with impunity the arms race, their military hegemony and the defiant nuclear tests in laboratories and computers while they try to ban them for the rest? How can we stop those who split whole nations apart, prevent their peaceful reunification and finance and arm regimes that violate human rights? All the endeavours to establish a new, just and equitable economic world order, free of humiliating conditions and restrictive and onerous practices, are brutally challenged by a powerful minority that reserves the worst and cruellest of the infernos for the rest of the planet. A handful of the rich will never be able to represent the vast multitudes of human beings, deprived every day of their right to know that they are human, multitudes on whom cultural transnationalization imposes an information order capable of homogenizing even the news of their very lives. Nor can one accept that the select club should decree in a totalitarian way the political and juridical order of the peoples, without even asking who we are, where we are coming from and what we rely upon to go where we sovereignly wish. Those belonging to that club, and they alone, are the ones primarily responsible for the fact that today cardinal principles of international law, such as self-determination, national independence, non- interference in domestic affairs, and particularly respect for the sovereignty of States are questioned. That is why Cuba asserts our right to differ, and why we reiterate the position expressed by our President more than three decades ago: “As long as the concept of sovereignty exists as a prerogative of nations and independent peoples, as a right of all peoples, we do not accept the exclusion of our people from that right. As long as the world is guided by those principles, as long as the world is guided by those concepts, which have universal 28 validity, because they are universally accepted and enshrined by the peoples, we will not accept being deprived of any of those rights; we will not relinquish any of those rights.” For us there is absolutely no doubt that sovereignty continues to be a concept and a prerogative of independent States, and that in today’s unipolar world that principle has even more force and validity than ever before. Economies, cultures and peoples are subjugated under the drum roll of globalization; development becomes as remote as stars to which we cannot travel, and wealth is increasingly polarized. Under the impulse of this globalization, vaunted new technological and scientific displays are poisoning the environment, crushing biodiversity and condemning to extinction the most precarious and wonderful of all species: mankind. It would be good if that global interdependency could stop the frantic consumption, balance national development patterns, make economies sustainable and multiply the riches of the peoples. Even better, if ideas are to be truly globalized, let us welcome the clamour for urgent reform of this United Nations, as remote from its own origins as it is unable to cope with the era in which we are living. That could be dreamt of, if at least the reform started with a comprehensive and inclusive endeavour, democratizing all its bodies while preserving its universal character, its political essence and its intergovernmental nature. It is high time to go beyond the rhetoric in which we have been immersed for two years, since we celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization with talk of reform, with talk about transformations, without saying what, who, how and when. If we are to be occupied, and not only preoccupied, with reform, let us reject, as incompatible with this Organization, the corporate and transnational approach promoted by some of the main United Nations contributors, as if this building were a stock exchange and the just desires of the peoples were mere merchandise. The reforms must permit the General Assembly to really exercise its prerogatives, including those which have been usurped, while preserving the principle of equality of all Member States, whose genuine political will is essential to advance. Intergovernmental participation in considering and adopting decisions on any reform package should be a fundamental precondition if we really want to tend to the needs of the historically forgotten majority in the world. Likewise, our peoples, especially the poorest ones, will understand only those decisions that are reflected in their lives and homes — not those that satisfy only their Governments. Cuba also advocates reform that especially strengthens United Nations structures and activities that are related to the promotion of economic and social development. The simplification, rationalization or reorientation of those structures must be the result of a process that always guarantees full completion and implementation of all programmes, mandates and activities in those areas. The United Nations should recover its real decision- making capacity in other critical issues, such as those related to free trade, development financing and other monetary topics. Any measure handing that role over to the main contributors must be blocked. Further, we should all endorse again the Charter obligation to contribute to stable and unconditional financing, making possible the effective and efficient implementation of all programmes, priorities, mandates and activities approved by the General Assembly. The approval of a budget for each programme reflecting the total resources required for the Organization to carry out all its activities will be a cornerstone of that endeavour. Along these lines, we oppose any formula based on the extortion and pressure that are exerted by some countries, particularly by the country which is the main contributor to the United Nations — as well as its deepest debtor, economically and morally speaking. But to achieve the more democratic, efficient and dynamic United Nations we are dreaming of, it is essential that the reforms reach the heart of one of its principal organs: the Security Council must stop being a bunker impenetrable to the General Assembly’s demands for an equitable and fair expansion. While some of the richest and most powerful States are already taking long strides towards any new seats that might appear, there are attempts to mislead, and even to deny the right of the third world to its due representation on the Council on an equal footing with the rest of the permanent members. Worse yet, the saw of division is once again cutting through the body of the poor to the benefit of the big industrialized countries. Let us reach agreement once and for all. If we want real security, what we agree upon must not further increase the appalling imbalances that today insult and exterminate us. Hence the importance of reforming the 29 composition and procedures of the Security Council, and of rectifying the largest existing imbalance, by enabling developing countries to become members based on equitable geographical representation and simultaneity of accession by new members. The Council will never be secure until transparency, democracy and the participation of non-member States forever take the place of the present dangerous and concealed manoeuvres. Peace will never be guaranteed until the obsolete and antidemocratic institution of the veto disappears, or is at least restricted pending its final elimination. That is the only way to prevent the abuses of power that today prevail in this Organization and in the Security Council. By confronting these abuses together, we will prevent the coercive policies and unilateral measures generated by certain States from becoming multilateral. I know a teenager who is the pride of his parents. He likes baseball, is a good student and dreams an ocean of dreams. But it has recently been discovered that he suffers from leukaemia. The medicines to cure him exist, and the treatment could cost less than $15,000 if we act in time. Cuba has been forced to arrange a discrete transaction to obtain through friendly third parties, and at a total cost of $60,000, the medicines to save that child’s life. That is the blockade: for the price of four treatments, we could afford only one. With the money to save four lives, only one will be saved. But this is not the only example. Despite its very limited income, Cuba continues to pay hundreds of millions of dollars in price differences, surcharges, freight and other additional charges in its imports of fuel, food, medicines and other basic products. Financial credits crucial for the economic recovery and growth were suspended or postponed or became more expensive, while all markets labelled us as a “risk” for fear of the unilateral punishment that could fall on Governments and banks if they lent us money. On top of all of that, and because of the protectionism of pharmaceutical patents, Cubans have been deprived of free access to medicines that have appeared on the market since 1979, including third-generation antibiotics and other drugs to treat AIDS and cancer. Cuba has no need to exaggerate the facts. It suffers them first, contemplates them afterwards, and always exposes them with a calm sense of responsibility. The tale of a giant Goliath against a small David could have been taken from the Bible, but the minstrels and chroniclers of the next millennium will find plenty of inspiration in the conflict between the United States and Cuba. Almost 40 years of resistance and of defence of our bold ideals of independence against our brutal neighbour who covets and loathes us provide us with the authority to speak. More than 35 years of struggle against the cruel and inhumane economic, commercial and financial blockade by the United States of America support our arguments. Every new charge made by Cuba is supported by more than $60 billion in losses — and that is not a full assessment — by an economy distorted by the war conditions imposed on us, and by the incalculable human, physical and psychological damage we have sustained. Every year sees an increase in the number of countries that vote by an overwhelming majority to put an end to that dirty, savage and silent war. Yet the blockade not only remains in effect, but has been cruelly and arrogantly strengthened before the very eyes of the world, which remains hamstrung in the face of the power of the Empire. Where are the courage and bravery that turned our species into a giant? Why should we tolerate the diplomacy of intimidation and blackmail? For how long will the world sit on its hands and watch so merciless a crime? It was such impunity that gave free rein to those who expedited the enactment of the criminal Helms- Burton Act as a new escalation of the blockade and as additional and convincing proof of a threat that goes beyond all borders. It is extraterritorial from top to bottom, because it was conceived and implemented against another sovereign State, with which they hypocritically maintain they are not at war; at the same time, it is extraterritorial against the rest of the world, upon which they are attempting to impose the narrow jurisdiction of a clumsy national legal artifice. This abhorred and oft-condemned imperial recipe has not met with any actions forceful enough to stop it. Its adoption gave rise to other aberrations, such as the D’Amato-Kennedy Act; and state and federal legislation of the same kind proliferates in that country. Similar measures already affect more than 35 sovereign States — that is, 2.3 billion people, accounting for 42 per cent of the world’s population and a potential market of $790 billion. These data, provided by the United States President’s Advisory Council on Export 30 Control and the American Institute for International Economy, prove that such extraterritorial policies also result in harm to the American people themselves, who in one year alone lost half a million jobs and more than $1 billion in salaries because of them. Insane politicians and legislators end up by restricting the very values of freedom upon which that great country was founded and, in its name, prevent millions of American youth from gaining access to information about a world festival of youth and students held in Havana last summer. Those who attempt today to cross that new iron curtain risk $250,000 dollar fines and up to 10 years in prison. Despite those threats, about a thousand young men and women from the United States challenged the veto on their freedom — no one could prevent them — and attended the Havana festival anyway. Such policies and concepts also affect the vast majority of our countrymen living in the United States, for years victims of criminal organizations and their hirelings based in Miami, used in the dirtiest deals and electoral manoeuvres, and even used as cannon fodder against their own people and their own motherland. Among them, a silent majority of immigrants is emerging ever stronger every day, rejecting the genocide against their motherland. Despite all this, the raving obsession of the reactionary circles never seems to stop, as a true tyranny attempts increasingly to reach out for the goal of world power. Today, new bills are being debated in the Congress in Washington, blooming under the shelter of instruments already approved in the Helms-Burton legal atrocity. Today, independent nations are being bullied every six months so that they can obtain a sovereignty certificate from the White House Oval Office to avoid retaliation for their relations with Cuba. Today, attempts to curb free trade with false excuses of national security are jolting the newly born World Trade Organization, and their doubtful seriousness begins to worry the most distinguished United States authorities. Today, deals are made behind the backs of peoples, Governments and Parliaments to impose moratoriums on investments, and secret pseudo-legal arguments, based on dubious morality, are concocted to disguise the shamelessness of those who yield to pressure. Today, there are blacklists of foreign companies and businessmen who do not submit to the rules, therefore being denied entry to that country, which regards itself as super-free. Visas are also denied to their spouses and children, to force them to yield to the empire’s will. Today, there are Governments that receive or await certificates of good democratic behaviour, certificates that they are defenders of selected and manipulated rights or are outstanding anti-drug enforcers, in order to gain access to a fast track to a free trade agreement, a trade credit or development aid. Today, European citizens are being blackmailed by attorneys, indicted and unjustly found guilty by United States courts, which boast about their impartiality, under such illegalities as the Helms-Burton Act. Today, there are imperialist diplomats, clones of policemen, who share the stage with famous Hollywood stars and who parade arrogantly among the Governments and Parliaments of the world, with their siren song and their well-known threats and offers of charity in exchange for the most abject complicity. All of this madness has revived official and covert operations, mercenaries, spies and assassins, as ready now as in the worst days of the cold war to plot and unleash terror against human beings and even employ aggressive biological agents against our economy. No one, absolutely no one, has lifted a finger in the United States Government to stop them. Diehard sectors have usurped their constitutional rights in order to exercise that power, and are obstructing them in the meanest and pettiest way. The same gang of ultraconservatives and gangsters is responsible for the acquittal of hijackers and impedes the use of the term “terrorists”, while with a silent and mysterious complicity they are bolstered, funded, organized, armed, trained and assigned to intelligence missions. Disguised as tourists, defenders of human rights or philanthropists, those who today stir up greater and more painful confrontations between Cuba and the United States are identical to those who 35 years ago were involved in the climate of aggression which led to the missile crisis in October 1962. Unfortunately, there are people in the world who do not see, or, even worse, do not want to see, these facts, 31 and from their sanctuaries they worry about our problems, study us, advise us to surrender, design our future with the same ingredients as our past, and even urge us to bear everything with the utmost patience. Believe me, it is very hard to understand, for example, the uneasiness caused by the lack of a variety of dishes on the Cuban table, when there is not the least concern for the millions of human beings to their south without tables or dishes, and often without even a slice of bread. We shall never understand or accept the longed-for renunciation of what we are and what we have been as the contemptible price that the people of socialist Cuba, like any other people in the world, should pay for an uncertain coexistence with a neighbour as disrespectful and arrogant as it is powerful. The moral and legal support of 136 votes in this Assembly encourages and comforts us in our struggle. But it has not been enough to overcome the persistent arrogance of the one who thinks himself the divine judge and lacks the humility to admit the failure of a mistaken policy. Although their representatives may, as usual, leave the Chamber, we know they are listening. Therefore, on behalf of the people of free Cuba we wish them to know and to convey to their Government and Congress that we have absolutely no fear of them. We also know that only international pressure can prevent these forms of aggression against Cuba, or any other sovereign State, from multiplying. For these reasons, and because of our commitment to the millions of Cubans whom we represent and on whose behalf we now speak, we confirm that if our stubborn will to resist costs us our lives, so be it a thousand times over. Never shall we submit again to being slaves of a haughty and arrogant empire that refuses to recognize pluralism or boundaries, an empire that decides to blockade our existence and kill all hope. Our experience confirms to us today, more than ever, that only the spirit of sacrifice, the loving, valiant, free and selfless unity of our people and Government, can give us the strength of character of Quixote to stand up to such gigantic hardships. That is how we have been able to resist, along with the most generous solidarity and understanding of thousands of millions of people. Desiring only the noblest satisfaction, our people volunteer and join in the titanic task of putting an end to the cataclysms shaking the Earth and fighting for the advent of a new millennium of emancipation, peace, security and development for all nations. We ask for nothing, absolutely nothing, in return. We can only offer the example of having stoically endured the harassment of the greatest Power in history, of maintaining our principles and of continuing to believe, work and move forward when many thought we had stopped and were dying. The father of our independence said, “We Cubans do not seek and do not want anything greater than honour, homeland and freedom. Everything else will come for sure and in bulk after all that. What we need is to succeed.” And our existence today is reason enough for us to assert proudly that we have already succeeded. Because of that unique experience, we can also say that this is a solemn and decisive time. The imperial Power that wants to subjugate the world is no match for us if we stand together. We are a great and very powerful majority. There will be no place in history for those who stay on their knees. Let us all rise, united!﻿The fifty- second anniversary of the United Nations is yet another historic moment for us all. Our shared presence here is evidence that as Members of this great institution we have an opportunity to realize our collective aspirations and expectations. It is necessary therefore for the Organization to ensure that the concerns of Member States, particularly those in the developing world, are not compromised or seen as secondary to the process. It is essential that the United Nations become a catalyst for improving the quality of life of our citizens and a champion of our fundamental rights and freedoms. Such challenges will require much commitment and strategic thinking. I believe that if we succeed we will have laid the foundation for peace and international security for generations to come. With our nations and peoples standing at the crossroads of tremendous change, and with heightened expectations in the fields of human development and poverty eradication, the United Nations must be allowed to assume an even greater role. Saint Kitts and Nevis maintains that the United Nations has the necessary institutional capacity to encompass our collective ambitions and simultaneously to resolve many of the problems facing nation-States. In the light of the fundamental importance which my Government attaches to a reformed, more functional United Nations, we welcome the appointment of His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan as Secretary-General. His commitment to and wide experience in this institution will help provide the United Nations with the crucial leadership it needs at this critical juncture in the Organization s history. As we march into a new millennium, with its increasing uncertainties and complexities, the United Nations and its membership will have to recommit themselves to human development in all its facets. Otherwise we will have failed in this decade to accomplish our mandate of poverty eradication. The growing reduction in much-needed aid and technical assistance to the developing world threatens the further marginalization of our poor countries. This means that countries will grow to depend more on the United Nations. We therefore urge the United Nations to work more closely with developing countries to devise new ideas and pragmatic approaches to improve the standard of living of the world's poor. This reality, we think, lends greater urgency to the Secretary-General's proposals for reform. In this regard, the Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis encourages wide discussion of the extensive and far- reaching reform proposals with the aim of arriving at consensus. We believe that it is vital to restructure and consolidate some of the different areas of services that the United Nations provides. However this must herald real change and increased benefit for Member States. We cannot support a mere transfer of resources from one organ to another without proper safeguards to ensure efficiency and accountability. In the same vein, we hope that development reforms will not sacrifice the effectiveness and distinctiveness of existing organs. In order for the developing world to achieve sustainable growth, we need the expertise, we need the resources and we need the institutional capabilities of existing United Nations funds and programmes. As we work towards greater efficiency in the management and administration of services, it is important not to undermine positive past achievements. Member States must refrain from marrying conditionalities to the process of reform, especially when these very conditionalities hinder substantial progress in the reform process itself. Saint Kitts and Nevis therefore suggests that in order for reforms to work they must of necessity balance and protect the interests of Member States, not simply appear to reward or benefit a privileged few. Reform is not about creating mechanisms that merely restructure the obligations of States to the Organization. Reform should not be used as an opportunity to compensate current economic strength. Decisions on permanent and non-permanent membership, as part of the reform process, should be the result of a process of debate and consensus-building. My delegation expects to see greater emphasis on geographic representation and on correcting old inequalities that continue to plague us today. Saint Kitts and Nevis appeals to all States to be careful not to confuse the need for genuine systemic reforms with legally assessed financial obligations to the Organization. Nations demanding reform should also be willing to reform incongruous attitudes and perceptions of the United Nations. We must honour all our responsibilities to the Organization. Progress will require that we all work more closely together to confront the multitude of complicated problems, old and new. To this end, let us challenge ourselves to find common ground and assist the United Nations in developing the appropriate ideas and strategies that promote our common agenda. This may not be easy; hence the Organization will need to establish a mutually beneficial relationship between policy makers in Government and the business community. On this note, I should like to acknowledge the magnificent contribution of Mr. Ted Turner to this Organization. He has shown himself to be an exceptional international citizen. We trust that this humanitarian gesture of support for the Organization and its work will make a noticeable impact on the areas designated, and that it will challenge others of like mind to demonstrate their support for the Organization as well. This show of support is a reminder that only the United Nations can provide the kind of impartial and comprehensive leadership that Member States want. Only the United Nations, with 50 years of successes and 2 failures as a world institution, has the unique experience to develop essential capabilities to serve its membership. The United Nations has the competitive edge. A United Nations reformed to deal with the modern challenges of a modern era can work, but only if it is allowed to work. I appreciate well the power of national imperatives and individualism. I also understand well the concerns about supranational institutions. Nevertheless, we have come too far to surrender our global destiny to fear and misconceptions. When we speak of the development of the human person yet fail to appreciate that economic rights are as fundamental to human dignity as are human rights, we do great disservice to the cause of human rights. However, when we acknowledge these rights then we give more substance to social stability and the process of true democracy. Democracy is not new to the Caribbean region. It is a way of life, a tradition for our region. We see it as the most practical and useful system of government to advance our people. However, democracy is not simply about institutions or processes. It is about creating an enabling government and an enabling environment in which the ordinary person — the impoverished, the disillusioned, the educated and the rich — feels included and feels that he or she can participate in the decision-making process and feels that his or her dreams can be truly realized. Because we regard democracy as the most efficient and viable vehicle for sustainable human development, it must deliver and be seen to deliver. The people must be reassured that they can and indeed will rise from the quicksand of poverty through the promise of development. If we fail to deliver on the promise, then democracy will fail. If democracy fails, poverty becomes entrenched and chaos becomes inevitable. The condition of poverty has for too long been linked with the destiny of small States. The apparent ease with which both are dismissed is a source of grave concern to the Government and the people of Saint Kitts and Nevis. Too little attention is being paid to the economic hardships, political disruptions and social dislocations which we are forced to endure as small developing States. Instead of seeing crucial support from the developed world, we are witnessing increased tendencies towards isolationism and neglect. In the current wave of globalization, economic stability has become the soft underbelly of Caribbean security, democracy and prospects for sustainable development. If these economies are not strengthened and given appropriate assistance, one lays waste to the tremendous intellectual talents in these countries and exposes the political and social fabric to the nefarious forces that lurk in the region. Our small countries need institutional support and partnership to help in preparing our youth to adapt their knowledge and skills to changing world circumstances. Such preparation will help make them self-sufficient and more responsive to the unpredictable changes taking place around us. Additionally, we must create jobs on a continuous basis to inspire our young people and put life's basic needs within reach of their parents. We must not overlook the crucial link between economic growth and long-term political and social stability. Sustainable development in the Caribbean is in everyone's best interest. My Government does not subscribe to conspiracy theories, but it is acutely aware of the ease with which we can all fall victim to the conspiracy of silence and the conspiracy of neglect. Our economies are under siege; our way of life is threatened; the growth of our countries and people is undermined by forces which are better able to exploit globalization and trade liberalization. No one in good faith can accuse us of complacency. Our countries have worked hard to keep pace with current economic trends. We have tightened fiscal and monetary policies, and we are monitoring them very closely. We have run the gauntlet of social and economic measures supposedly structured to ensure the economic growth and survival of our various economies. The road we have travelled has been a difficult one, and we have learned valuable lessons. Still, we continue to suffer exclusion from developed countries' markets for our various products. As a direct consequence, the private sector has become sceptical of its very survival and profitability. Our banana-producing countries in the region have suffered a tremendous and potentially devastating blow in the wake of the recent panel ruling of the World Trade Organization (WT0) on the banana regime of the African, Caribbean and Pacific group of States (ACP). It is inconceivable that the insignificant but important 3 percentage in access that ACP countries share in this market can pose any meaningful threat to the collaborative interests of multinational producers. Our banana and sugar industries are major employers and foreign exchange earners; yet, without regard for our survival, they are being challenged with the ultimate objective of dismantling them completely. At the same time, we still do not have ready access to essential technologies vital to making our industries and human resources more competitive and more efficient. We contend that trade liberalization, without the proper mechanisms to protect the small and the weak, does not promote fair trade. Where is the fairness of fair trade? How, therefore, will our small island developing States find new and sustainable ways to respond to the growing needs of our population? How will we be able to stem the brain drain, the migration of human resources searching for a better standard of living? Our countries have undertaken to diversify our economies despite the obvious dislocations within our societies. We remain committed to democratic institutions, and we continuously allocate scarce resources to human development. Our Governments in the Caribbean have been working more closely with the private sector as true partners in development. We have enacted legislation to facilitate increased investment opportunities and to encourage foreign direct investment and domestic savings. Nonetheless, with every step we seem to fall prey to the perpetual and constantly evolving demands for more extensive changes without any regard for the effects on our countries and our people. Globalization, with its insatiable appetite, and the ravenous forces of unrestricted free market and trade liberalization are forever famished. Why must the rules which are always in a state of constant flux be to the detriment of small resource-poor States? In the coming years, not only will we still be struggling to combat poverty, but the concepts of sovereignty and governance will also be seriously challenged as we endeavour to cope with the complex implications of forces that face our societies and menace our democracies. The transnational nature of information, of capital, of labour and of technological advances will not spare our tiny countries the trying consequences unleashed by globalization. Despite these difficulties, Saint Kitts and Nevis will not become a nation of mendicants. We will give priority to the right of our citizens to economic well-being. For what good would it do if our people achieve their human right to exist but are denied the right to live dignified lives? The Labour Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis has undertaken to build 1,000 new, affordable homes by the end of this century. We believe that all our citizens have the right to live in dignity and to have access to the basic necessities of life. We have already turned over 100 new houses, and by the end of this year we expect 300 families to be moving into new homes in Saint Kitts and Nevis. This is the commitment of the Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis to the development of its citizens. I have said in the past, and I maintain now, that we must abandon the practice of using gross national product per capita to measure standards of living for people in the developing world. How can the developed world and multilateral agencies deny assistance to countries on the basis that such a country has reached this artificial threshold? Are people in the developing world not entitled to a higher standard of living, or must they always straddle the boundaries of poverty and exist only at levels which the developed world considers acceptable indicators of human progress? It is important for us to dedicate our energies to the logic of prevention. In Saint Kitts and Nevis we believe strongly that prevention is better than cure. We believe in enabling our peoples to have a life free of poverty and despair. The Secretary-General has called for greater efficiency in management, greater resource mobilization and redeployment of potential savings to the development fields. This is long overdue. It is also the duty of Member States to ensure that new resources are targeted at development. Such a process will have to be guided by and nourished with vision, political will and an appreciation of the global imperatives of sustainable development and poverty eradication. It will involve foresight, profound analyses, and a willingness to look beyond national self-interest. Working together to shape our collective destiny could enable us to reduce the risks of future political and social conflicts. I believe firmly that the special circumstances and vulnerability indices of small States must be at the forefront of international debate. If there were ever a question as to the vulnerability of small States, I challenge the Assembly to recall the unfortunate situation 4 on the Caribbean island of Montserrat. This reality clearly demonstrates that it takes only one disaster, only one violent act of nature, only one volcanic eruption to dislocate an entire population, decimate an entire economy and destroy the entire social fabric of a people. The Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis, like other Caribbean Community (CARICOM) countries, has extended a willing hand of health and social support to the people of Montserrat. We continue to provide employment and other business opportunities to those who have come to our shores in Saint Kitts and Nevis from the island of Montserrat. I urge the international community to join the Caribbean in taking prompt, decisive and tangible steps to assist the people of Montserrat. Montserrat is a microcosm of our precarious existence. Hence, we urge the international community to fulfil its promises under the Barbados Programme of Action and other commitments to the developing world. Our survival as a region is intimately interwoven with our environment, and our physical and economic limitations should not be further burdened by the transshipment of hazardous waste through our waterways. Such actions are a flagrant violation of our human rights and an affront to our sovereign dignity. As we work to fulfil the dreams of those who came before us, I trust that we will succeed in developing confidence in the capabilities of the United Nations and entrust it with realizing our common objectives. At the same time, there will be occasions when we must challenge ourselves to appreciate that some problems in international affairs require indigenous approaches and remedies. We must, therefore, yield to such imperatives. One case in point is the Middle East, where the current crisis calls for a nurturing of mutual trust and a clear willingness to understand the need for all the parties to come to the bargaining table. Saint Kitts and Nevis believes that durable peace and security are the common desires of the nations involved. Success requires boldness and commitment. Genuine progress will come not from violence, recrimination and mistrust, but through partnership and dialogue. Saint Kitts and Nevis urges both sides to use negotiation and creative confidence-building measures in addressing their differences Saint Kitts and Nevis also urges the Chinese people on both sides of the Taiwan Strait to commit their collective energies to the pursuit of common approaches to resolving the current impasse that divides them. The Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis maintains that progress on this issue requires sustained dialogue, political will and the goodwill of all. We also believe that the remarkable strides the Chinese people on Taiwan have made in the last two decades should not be squandered. The international community can benefit, and stands to benefit significantly, from the economic, technological and social advances of Taiwan. In conclusion, fulfilling the expectations of our citizens is not a simple task, but we cannot and must not become discouraged. I hope, therefore, that as we endeavour to accomplish our goals Member States will not continue to make unreasonable demands on this Organization while refusing it the requisite tools and resources for appropriate action. Our world needs a stronger United Nations. Our countries and our peoples need its intellectual supervision and potential for impartiality. Let us not try to relegate it to the periphery, lest we risk serious consequences in the future. Let us commit to writing a history of which we can be proud, lest history should hold us in contempt for squandering our children's heritage. Let this session of the General Assembly be a watershed when collective efforts were translated into appropriate action and well-deserved results.  ﻿I recall two years ago, when, on the occasion of the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations, this podium was the focus of attention. There was much enthusiasm and hope as leaders looked back on the past 50 years and looked forward to the next 50 and the coming of the new millennium. I had the honour to be among world leaders who shared the privilege of participating in that historic occasion. It was then that we as leaders made a number of pledges and committed ourselves to effecting necessary and appropriate changes to reshape and reform the United Nations. We pledged never to repeat the mistakes of the past and to work for a better world through an improved and more dynamic United Nations. I take this opportunity to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your assumption of the presidency of the fifty-second session and to thank Ambassador Razali Ismail for his work in guiding the fifty-first session. It is with profound pleasure and a sincere sense of hope and expectation that I welcome and congratulate our new Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan. I assure him that he has the full confidence and support of the Commonwealth of Dominica in his endeavours. Notwithstanding the leadership changes, if we are to achieve our ultimate goal of a better world for all, much more must happen. The reform of the United Nations, which has been the subject of such intense debate for so long now, must become a reality. We have noted and taken seriously your commitment, Mr. President, to encourage action-oriented discussions on measures and proposals that encompass the reform of the United Nations system. It is our wish that the discussion, as vital a part of the process as it is, will be as short-lived as possible and that the implementation of reforms which we all want to see will very soon be effected. The people of this world are demanding reform. The Organization itself needs the reform. Let us do it now. The numbers, geographic representation and decision- making process of the principal organs of the United Nations must urgently reflect the realities of the new millennium. Membership in the United Nations is based on the sovereign equality of its Members. Whether we are small or whether we are big, we are worthy of respect. And we all have an obligation to work towards maintaining international peace and security; achieving international cooperation in solving economic, social, cultural or humanitarian problems; and encouraging respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms. We do not expect to be in an Organization where the rule is the law of the jungle; that is, the survival of the fittest. Rules and regulations of any organization which can be interpreted and implemented in a manner which threatens the survival and the very existence of its members are undesirable. Most of us are members of the World Trade Organization (WTO), and I wish to bring it to the attention of the General Assembly and of all representatives that recent decisions taken in the WTO at the request of some Members of this very United Nations are threatening to destroy the livelihood of smaller nations. The Commonwealth of Dominica, my country, and other countries of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) are threatened by this action. Our main means of livelihood — bananas — has been placed on the shakiest of grounds by this decision. Such uncertainty brings about instability and can threaten peace. While the General Assembly has no enforcement authority, its resolutions and recommendations to Member States carry the political and moral force of majority approval. I appeal then to Member States to use whatever is in their power to persuade the complainants against the 5 European banana marketing regime to consider the consequences of their action and to think again. Cliches like “desperate times call for desperate measures” and “a hungry man is an angry man” may sound banal, but they cannot be ignored. Peace in our region and peace in the world depend much on the humanitarian dispensation of justice. The action which has been taken against us in the WTO is not justice. The raison d’être for the establishment of the United Nations was to maintain peace and security. You, Mr. President, in your address to this body recognized that peace and security are threatened by international terrorism. May I draw to your attention that peace and security can also be threatened by economic terrorism. Our region is now threatened by economic terrorism, and our Organization — the United Nations — has a responsibility and a duty to ensure that no form of terrorism succeeds in undermining our peace and security. This matter is so serious that I urge the Secretary- General to pay a visit to the now tranquil and peaceful Caribbean region, starting in the Windward Islands, to get a sense of the situation for himself. For there is a flame ignited in that area which has the potential to transform itself into a conflagration of a magnitude capable of engulfing the entire hemisphere. In May of this year in Bridgetown, Barbados, CARICOM and the United States entered into a Partnership for Prosperity and Security in the Caribbean. Our ability to meet our obligations for implementation of the Plan of Action will be seriously compromised by this decision of the WTO which seeks to deny us the opportunity to earn our living. Our Caribbean region is often described as paradise, but sometimes there can be trouble in paradise. Our region is prone to natural disasters. Hurricanes, earthquakes and floods are not uncommon, and the world knows of the slow destruction of the island of Montserrat by the volcanic eruptions which have been going on now for over two years. Member States of CARICOM have come to the help of this small territory, however there continues to be a great need for humanitarian assistance, and we look to the Members of the United Nations for their meaningful contribution to rebuilding the Emerald Isle. Man-made threats also plague our region, one such being the trans-shipment of hazardous waste through the Caribbean Sea. The indiscriminate pollution of the sea, the destruction of marine life by the discharge of waste into the waterway by ocean liners, and the trans-shipment of illegal drugs and arms all pose serious threats to the orderly development of the region. There is a need to establish a regime under the auspices of the United Nations to stem such practices. We cannot help but lament that after 50 years and more our world has not yet found that peace for which this body was instituted. In the past years we have seen the struggles in the former Yugoslavia and in Central Africa. We have witnessed the scourge of ethnic cleansing and killings. And the Middle East remains unsettled. Unrest in any part of the world affects us all. It is therefore our responsibility to work towards that total peace. We congratulate the 100 nations which have signed the Treaty banning the production and dissemination of landmines. Such weapons of destruction do not deserve to exist in a civilized world. We trust that nations which are still hesitating will soon come around and sign — and eventually ratify — the Treaty. For there to be peace we must acknowledge the right of peoples and nations to exist, regardless of colour, class, race, creed, political belief or model of government. This decade was declared the International Decade of the World’s Indigenous People. We are happy to report that in the Commonwealth of Dominica the first peoples of the Caribbean, the Caribs, coexist peacefully with the rest of the population. It is our intention to work diligently with the Secretary-General so that before this decade is over there will be some tangible and positive impact on the lives of our own indigenous people which would give meaning to the noble intentions of this body in making this declaration. The Commonwealth of Dominica as a member of CARICOM, the Organization of American States (OAS) and the Association of Caribbean States (ACS), is heartened by the spread of democracy throughout the hemisphere. We intend to play our part to ensure that this movement is not transient, but, rather, reflects a deep- rooted conviction of our people that this is indispensable for development and prosperity. We respect the right of all countries to chose their own model of government, while at the same time we urge all Members of the Organization to practice or continue to practice the democratic process and to provide 6 for their people full opportunity to enjoy all the benefits of a democratic society. It is against this background that the Government and people of the Commonwealth of Dominica call again on this world body not to continually close its ears to the pleas of the Republic of China for international recognition. It must be remembered that the Republic of China is a founding Member of this Organization and has been a Member for the greater part of its existence. The Republic of China on Taiwan is a politically democratic and economically dynamic society with a directly elected Government and Parliament. Dominica therefore urges Member States not to continue to ignore or block the efforts being made to admit the Republic of China to membership of this and other international bodies. Peace in this world also requires that the hungry be fed, the homeless sheltered, the ignorant educated, all people enjoy good health, and our patrimony — the Earth — kept in a condition that we all can enjoy. We applaud and encourage the efforts of international organizations — including United Nations specialized agencies, which work to satisfy these needs and aspirations. The effective functioning of this Organization requires proper management of its resources, both human and financial. We encourage the Secretary-General in his efforts in this regard, and we call upon all members to do their best to provide the necessary financial support to the limits of their ability. I take this opportunity to congratulate Mr. Ted Turner on his generous donation to the Organization and, like him, call upon others to do likewise. I am convinced that the Secretary-General will use this gift most wisely and judiciously, knowing that proper utilization of these funds will dispose others to come forward. Every country, even the most developed ones, has its needs. We in Dominica, a developing country, have many. Globalization and trade liberalization, combined with the impact of natural disasters, have increased the urgency for diversifying our economy. In this regard, attention is being paid to our human resource capacity, to take advantage of the revolution in technology and communication. A major thrust in the process of diversification is tourism, but tourism with a difference: ecotourism. Earlier I mentioned the need to preserve and conserve the Earth for the enjoyment of all. My country Dominica has much to offer to visitors who want to enjoy nature, and we are working hard to make ourselves the ecotourism destination of the Caribbean. Some of those listening to me may have visited Dominica and know how difficult it is to enter there. We are taking steps to make it easier to visit my country by the construction of a 24-hour landing facility for long-range aircraft. We trust that our approach to friendly nations and institutions for assistance in this regard will receive favourable consideration. The beginning of the new millennium is close at hand. Two years ago we all pledged to redouble our efforts to work towards fulfilling the obligations we assumed when we became Members of this great Organization. Let none of us waver in our resolve. The key to it all lies in our working together as Members of the United Nations. Let us join hands and wills to build this better world. History will judge us harshly if we do not.  ﻿I wish at the outset to congratulate you, Mr. Udovenko, on your election to the important post of President of the General Assembly, and to wish you success in guiding the work of a forum that is so important for the entire international community. Speaking from this rostrum three years ago, I stressed that, in spite of the armed confrontation that was then on the increase in my country, the leadership of Tajikistan had opted for a consistent policy of political dialogue as the only means of achieving peace and national reconciliation. Today the results of that policy can be seen. With active international support, the negotiation process led to historic decisions being taken by the Tajik people, laying the groundwork for successful progress towards peace and national reconciliation. I should like to take this opportunity to express sincere gratitude to the members of the General Assembly, the Security Council, the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and his Special Representative in Tajikistan, Mr. Gerd Merrem, for the constant and close attention that they have paid to achieving a settlement in Tajikistan, and, indeed, to the problems of Tajikistan in general. We greatly appreciate the efforts of the Russian Federation, the Islamic Republic of Iran and other States, as well as international and regional organizations, that acted as observers at the inter-Tajik talks and made a significant contribution to the very difficult negotiation process. We are deeply grateful to all friendly countries, to international organizations and primarily to members of the United Nations system that have assisted and continue to provide assistance in the establishment of a lasting peace and accord in Tajikistan. We are fully determined to strive consistently and unwaveringly for the full implementation of the General Agreement on the Establishment of Peace and National Accord in Tajikistan and for the achievement of national accord. Here we count on growing support from the United Nations and its observer missions, acting in close cooperation with the Peacekeeping Forces of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). Without such cooperation, it would be extremely difficult to implement the military component of the inter-Tajik agreements or to achieve a final solution to the problem of refugees. Another important aspect of United Nations assistance to the peace process in Tajikistan is the development and implementation of a comprehensive strategy on humanitarian aid and post-conflict reconstruction of our economy. An excellent framework for this effort is provided by General Assembly resolution 51/30 J adopted on 25 April 1997 on emergency international humanitarian assistance for lasting peace and reconciliation in Tajikistan. We hope that in the course of this session this useful initiative will be continued and that an updated resolution will be adopted taking fully into account the specifics of the transition period and the humanitarian needs of the people of Tajikistan. Among the multitude of conflicts and crisis situations which unfortunately entered a new phase during the period following the cold war, we are particularly concerned about the situation in the neighbouring Islamic State of Afghanistan. Together with our Central Asian partners in the CIS and with Russia, we have repeatedly expressed our profound concern over the destabilizing impact of the situation in Afghanistan on the entire region, as well as on the situation beyond the region. On the initiative of the Almaty Five, about a year ago the Security Council became more actively involved in Afghan problems. Along with resolutions adopted by the General Assembly, Security Council decisions are the best foundation for ending the fratricidal war that has been going on for so many years there. I have to say frankly that the fact that the Afghan problem remains unsettled may undermine the fragile peace in Tajikistan. We hope that, taking into account the agreed position of the “Big Eight” Summit participants in Denver, and using their experience of cooperation to solve conflicts in the Balkans and other hot spots in the world, Russia and the United States, cooperating with other States concerned and supporting United Nations involvement, will play a decisive part in an Afghan settlement in the nearest possible future. I will be honest with the Assembly: it is in Tajikistan’s vital interests that peace be established in Afghanistan for another reason — it would help to reduce substantially the flow of arms and drugs across the Tajik- Afghan border, and it would reduce the proliferation of terrorism and waves of extremism which are destabilizing the entire region. I would like to comment now on the issue of reform of our Organization. We attribute great importance to the United Nations as a key instrument for maintaining international peace and security. The idea of adjusting the United Nations to today’s realities is certainly important and necessary. In today’s transitional conditions, the stabilizing role of the United Nations must grow steadily. We believe it is important to approach United Nations reform in a pragmatic way, concentrating on the most pressing issues, and maintaining a reasonable balance between innovation and strengthening mechanisms that have proved their effectiveness. As a State that has experienced first-hand all the hardships of civil war and has travelled the difficult road towards national reconciliation with active support and assistance from the United Nations, Tajikistan is convinced of the need to preserve strong and efficient peacemaking mechanisms. First and foremost, this relates to the work of the Security Council, which has to maintain timeliness and effectiveness. We believe that Security Council representation would be enhanced if its membership were expanded not only to candidates from industrialized States, such as Germany and Japan, but also to representatives from developing countries on a rotational basis. On administrative and budget issues, we consider it important to ensure zero actual and, if possible, zero nominal growth of the United Nations budget. We must utilize material and human resources more efficiently, and we must strengthen mechanisms monitoring the work of the United Nations apparatus. We must also count on the understanding of the international community in respect of temporary financial difficulties facing some developing States and countries emerging from conflicts. We consider it right that the strategy for the twenty- first century should be sustainable development, ensuring conservation of the environment and natural resources. Although we were not entirely satisfied with the results of the recent nineteenth special session of the General Assembly, held last summer, it is important that that session outlined ways of expediting progress in key areas of sustainable development, as defined in Agenda 21. As a country that has suffered from civil war and is in transition to market relationships, Tajikistan expects the 2 United Nations to pay closer attention and participate more efficiently in ensuring sustainable development in countries with transitional economies, including introducing measures to neutralize the negative social consequences of such transitions. We believe that the United Nations can and must maintain its unique role in providing international support for the integration of States in transition into global economic and trade systems and for their involvement in the existing and emerging regulatory institutions and mechanisms. These demands were reflected in the Agenda for Development, which was adopted by the General Assembly in June this year. The absence of peaceful conditions in Tajikistan has prevented it from moving towards sustainable development in any significant way, and consequently it has not been able fully to implement the recommendations of Agenda 21. Due to the civil confrontations that have swept the country, the main efforts of the Government of Tajikistan in recent years have been aimed at eradicating conflict, establishing peace and tranquillity, and creating conditions to integrate the population into active economic and creative work. The new prospects for peace provide us with an opportunity to redouble our efforts and concentrate on unsolved problems. The most important of these include the rapid reconstruction of the social and economic infrastructure that had been destroyed; the return of refugees to their homes, together with their social and psychological adjustment and reintegration into the new conditions of life; the active involvement of citizens in economic activity through the creation of jobs, which are crucial; and, above all, the creation of conditions conducive to the democratic development of Tajik society. Today, an intensive transition to a socially oriented market economy is under way in Tajikistan. Against the background of an increasingly far-reaching peace process, the Government of Tajikistan is carrying out economic reforms that promise positive results in the foreseeable future. The country’s natural wealth, water supply, energy and intellectual resources are favourable to such a development. However, reality demands that we confront the situation with honesty. We must admit that without international support it would be extremely difficult for us to carry out the reconstruction and creative tasks quickly. In the first place, it is a question of donors continuing their commendable efforts to extend humanitarian assistance to our most vulnerable population groups, which have suffered from the civil war. Economic reforms under way in the country also need efficient and targeted support. This would involve an additional flow of investment into Tajikistan, the more active involvement of the country’s export potential in international trade transactions, and our gradual integration into international financial and trade institutions. I should like to express my conviction that, at this stage of its development, Tajikistan will not be left alone to deal with its problems. The goal set out in the Charter of the United Nations, “to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war”, has very special meaning for the people of Tajikistan, who have experienced the bitter taste of fratricidal war. Our experience has shown that the work of the United Nations, based on the coordinated efforts of its Member States, can achieve tangible results and resolve seemingly irreconcilable differences, thereby enabling us to move onto a peaceful, non-violent track. We note the tireless efforts of the United Nations in maintaining and strengthening international peace and security on a practical level under new and constantly changing conditions. We believe that useful momentum for this work could be provided by convening, in 1999, a third international peace conference, an initiative that is enjoying growing support among members of the international community. Greater in-depth discussion of this issue on the threshold of the twenty-first century would further promote mutual understanding and cooperation in the world, taking account of the interests of all on the basis of the equality of all nations.    ﻿It is a great pleasure for me to congratulate you, Sir, on your outstanding election. Your competence and your vast experience in multilateral diplomacy, to which you have devoted a large part of your professional life, together with your personal qualities assure us that our work will be conducted properly and be successful. I should also like to take this opportunity to pay a well-earned tribute to Ambassador Razali of Malaysia for the effective way in which he conducted the fifty-first session of our General Assembly. I congratulate, also, the members of the Bureau, who I am convinced stand ready to do their utmost to ensure the success of this important session. It is in fact an important session because, upon the invitation of the Secretary-General, it is being devoted largely to an exchange of views, which I hope will be productive, on the reform of the Organization. The document before us, entitled “Renewing the United Nations: A Programme for Reform”, is of the greatest interest to my country's authorities. The desire to make the Organization, and above all its Secretariat, more efficient by improving the coherence and coordination of its activities is the very judicious inspiration for the proposed reform process. That desire is easy to understand and endorse, given its obvious responsiveness to current real needs. During the 52 years of its existence, the United Nations has regularly been challenged by the requirements of an ever changing world and has thus been led to develop or create new structures — without, however, always reducing or suppressing old ones. The current exceptionally broad changes in the political, economic and social spheres irresistibly call for a profound transformation of multilateral cooperation. They require the Organization to make an ineluctable effort to adapt that cannot be delayed without jeopardizing its prestige and seeing its international role inexorably wither. Thus, we can only endorse the will demonstrated by the General Assembly at the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations and the recent initiatives undertaken. In our view, it is rational to concentrate and better coordinate the Organization's missions around the five great pillars of its Charter responsibilities: international peace and security, development, humanitarian affairs, economic and social affairs and human rights. The promotion and protection of human rights, which the Secretary-General very rightly proposes to strengthen, receive the intersectoral treatment which their multidisciplinary nature naturally evokes. That nature must not allow us to forget, however, that this fundamental area of the Organization's competence requires the strengthening of its appropriate structures. The High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mrs. Mary Robinson, who has just assumed her office — and whose arrival we welcome sincerely and confidently — must be given sufficient human and financial resources, as well as the decision-making autonomy, necessary to fulfil the essential duties that have fallen to her. Next year's celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights should be an opportunity to recall the commitments undertaken by the Member States when they adopted that text on 10 December, 1948, and, a few years later, on 16 December 1966, the two international human rights agreements which, I am pleased to say, the Principality has recently ratified. The Emergency Relief Coordinator entrusted with humanitarian assistance must also enjoy the greatest autonomy and the means necessary to allow him to intervene effectively and promptly when necessary — a task that the Government of the Principality accords the highest priority. This autonomy must, more generally, touch the entire international civil services. The independence of United Nations agents — the Secretary-General first among them — is the guarantee of the quality of their service and of the trust which the international community places in them. The decision to bring together all the field programmes and information centres in common premises, to be known as United Nations Houses, is both rational and symbolic. It is an ideal response to the current needs to concentrate and better coordinate operational activities, while promoting a strong and cohesive image of the entire system. We strongly encourage the Secretary-General to pursue this approach, which has recently been undertaken in South Africa. For those States that will not have the opportunity to host such Houses, might we not consider establishing a United Nations presence in the form of a volunteer honourary representative: a national figure mandated, alongside the authorities, to disseminate information and heighten general awareness? The widespread practice of appointing honourary consuls could, in this respect, serve as an example. The special team dedicated to reorienting information activities highlights, in the Secretary- General's report, a need which we understand: to improve and enlarge the United Nations capacity to communicate at the country level through innovative local partnerships. The establishment of honourary United Nations representatives would be one way to follow up that suggestion on a practical and affordable level. As the Secretary-General points out, public interest in the United Nations could also be sharpened by the organization of high-level thematic debates within General Assembly bodies. We agree with this, given that such debates would receive more attention from the press and public opinion than those currently held and would lessen the need for large world conferences. The Security Council has already taken steps to improve information services and exchanges with Member States that are not members of the Council and with the international community at large. These steps are useful and welcome and are beginning to bear fruit. The important question of enlarging the membership of that principal organ, which depends on a decision from the Member States, is also of great interest to us. The High-level Working Group on that subject has worked tremendously hard under the leadership of successive Presidents of the General Assembly and the dedication of its Vice-Presidents. We convey to them our warmest thanks. The Principality of Monaco is ready to endorse unreservedly any commitment or solution that might be achieved, including the creation of long-term seats lasting six to 10 years, for example. In tandem with the improvement already begun in the functioning of the Economic and Social Council, some considered attention also appears to be necessary to the 2 Trusteeship Council. The suggestions made by the Secretary-General seem to us to be wise and far-sighted. The Principality of Monaco could support the idea of entrusting that organ with new trusteeship responsibilities in the spheres of the environment and the protection of the common human patrimony. Outer space, the atmosphere, the high seas, as well as the free zones of the Arctic and Antarctic — especially in the spirit of the 1959 Treaty — would all stand to gain, under certain conditions, by being placed within its competence. The Council might also be entrusted with the ongoing task of considering the great transformations that would be entailed by predictable advances in science and technology. We must hope that the proposed reforms will be speedily enacted, so that the Millennium Assembly proposed by the Secretary-General for the year 2000 will indeed be an occasion for celebrating an updated and modernized United Nations. The Principality, which this year is celebrating the 700th anniversary of my family's dynasty in Monaco, can only wish long life to a United Nations strengthened and more open to civil society. Turning now to the nearer future, allow me to emphasize the importance that my country attaches to concluding the work on the international criminal court, which should lead to a plenipotentiary diplomatic conference next year in Rome. A collective morality that is universal in scope cannot exist without institutions to disseminate it, implement it and ensure its respect. The adoption of a Convention on anti-personnel landmines, which continue to inflict their savagery on civilian populations, has long been one of our goals. Is not respect for the dignity and physical integrity of human beings one of the most essential and universally recognized values, one that underlies both human rights and humanitarian law? The meeting convened by Canada last October and the series of meetings held in Vienna, Bonn and Brussels this year, as well as the diplomatic conference that recently took place in Oslo have led to the drafting of a text, which, in the spirit of resolution 51/45 S, prohibits not only the use but also the development, stockpiling and transfer of such mines. We truly welcome this development. In the same vein, I should like to note that the Principality has recently submitted its instruments of accession to the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects, a Convention that we believe constitutes great progress in the rules of warfare. Next year will be the International Year of the Ocean, for which we are making active preparations. The marine environment laboratory of the International Atomic Energy Agency in Monaco has recently moved into new, spacious and functional offices made available to it by our Government. That laboratory, thanks to its modern equipment, is helping to identify sources and new chemical markers of marine pollution. It regularly organizes training courses and consultative missions, and it is actively contributing, with the assistance of the United Nations Environment Programme and the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission, to the MEDPOL programme to combat pollution in the Mediterranean — an issue of great interest to us. The International Year of the Ocean should provide an opportunity to strengthen such programmes as well as international cooperation to promote the preservation and management of marine resources, including certain fish stocks and marine mammals. At the nineteenth special session of the General Assembly on the environment last June, many delegations emphasized these issues. Echoing the Commission on Sustainable Development, some quite rightly recalled the need regularly to assess, on an intergovernmental level and in the framework of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, the quality of the marine environment. This has been done for almost 20 years in France, Italy and Monaco under the RAMOGE programme. We hope that other regional cooperation activities of this nature will develop in 1998. For coastal States as well as for the international community, the oceans and the seas must be a protected, shared space, sparingly exploited — not a place for intense economic confrontation. Finally, like the European Union, whose views on many issues we share, the Principality of Monaco remains very concerned by the continued financial crisis in the United Nations. This crisis can be resolved only if Member States comply strictly with their commitments and pay in full, on time and without conditions their contributions to the regular and peacekeeping budgets as well as all accumulated arrears. 3 As a member of the International Olympic Committee, I am pleased once again to remind the Assembly that the Winter Olympic Games will be held next February in Nagano, Japan. The General Assembly at its fifty-first session invited Member States, through resolution 50/13, to respect a truce before, during and after both the Summer and Winter Olympic Games. Building a peaceful and better world through sport and the Olympic ideal must remain our motto at that great international meeting of the youth of the world. Finally, I should like to convey my deep sorrow, shared by my father and by the people of Monaco, at the loss of lives resulting from the forest fires — an ecological cataclysm — that are raging in Sumatra, Indonesia, and from the air disaster that occurred in Maden this morning, as well as at the tragic results of last night's earthquake in the Italian peninsula. I should like to extend, on my own behalf and on behalf of my father and the people of Monaco, our deepest condolences and sympathy.  ﻿Allow me first of all, Sir, to congratulate you sincerely on your unanimous election to the post of President of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session, and to express our confidence that under your wise and able guidance this session will successfully cope with all its historic tasks. Your election to that high and responsible post is further evidence of the burgeoning image of independent Ukraine, with which Azerbaijan enjoys an especially friendly relationship, and of its substantial contribution to the work of the Organization. I would also like to address special appreciation to Mr. Razali Ismail, whose innovative approach and high professionalism to a large extent facilitated the success of the last session and showed the irreversible nature of the radical process of reforming the Organization with a view to strengthening its effectiveness. For the past six years, the Republic of Armenia has continued its aggression against my country. Aiming to tear away and seize part of the territory of Azerbaijan, the Republic of Armenia initiated and sponsored a separatist movement in the Nagorny Karabakh region of Azerbaijan. Here it was gambling with the high principle of the self- determination of peoples and completely ignoring the principles of territorial integrity and the inviolability of borders. Subsequently, as members know, the Republic of Armenia resorted to armed aggression against the Azerbaijani Republic, occupying a considerable part of Azerbaijan and leaving about a million people without shelter. Their later invention, the so-called Republic of Nagorny Karabakh, is nothing but a tactical trick in the strategy of Armenian politicians, which is to attach the Nagorny Karabakh region of the Azerbaijani Republic to the Republic of Armenia. The international community rejected this policy through Security Council resolutions 822 (1993), 853 (1993), 874 (1993) and 884 (1993), which reaffirmed that the Nagorny Karabakh region is a part of Azerbaijan. The 1996 Lisbon summit of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) put forward three principles for the settlement of the Armenia- Azerbaijan conflict. These were: the territorial integrity of the Republic of Armenia and of the Azerbaijani Republic; definition of the legal status of Nagorny Karabakh through an agreement based on self-determination and conferring on Nagorny Karabakh the highest degree of self-rule within Azerbaijan; and guaranteed security for Nagorny Karabakh and its entire population, including mutual obligations to ensure compliance by all the parties with the provisions of the settlement. Armenia was the only country out of 54 OSCE member States that rejected those principles. While 7 speaking in favour of a peaceful settlement of the conflict at the earliest possible date, the Republic of Armenia received, during the period 1993 to 1996, a vast amount of Russian weaponry, far exceeding its requirements, including tanks, armoured vehicles and SCUD missiles, worth $1 billion. This clearly demonstrates that that country has not yet given up its aggressive plans. In an address to permanent representatives of United Nations Member States during a visit to United Nations Headquarters last August, the President of Azerbaijan, Mr. Heydar Aliyev, stated that Azerbaijan had been and would continue to be in favour of a peaceful resolution of the conflict. Azerbaijan is ready to provide the Armenian population of the Nagorny Karabakh region with the broadest possible autonomy, in accordance with world standards, but it will never submit to seizure of part of its territory or allow a second Armenian State to be created at the expense of its own land. Azerbaijan supported proposals submitted in September by the Co-Chairmen of the OSCE Minsk Conference, the United States, Russia and France. The elaboration of a draft agreement on cessation of the armed conflict on the basis of those proposals would create a solid foundation for achieving a breakthrough in the process of finding a settlement to the Armenia-Azerbaijan armed conflict. The reform package for the United Nations proposed by the Secretary-General is a serious and fundamental document. Azerbaijan welcomes his report (A/51/950) as a real basis for conducting reforms in order to adapt the United Nations to today’s rapidly changing demands and make it better prepared to meet the challenges of the twenty-first century. Azerbaijan is prepared to cooperate with all Member States and with the Secretary-General and his reform team in order to achieve the goal that has been set. We support the Secretary-General’s realistic assessment that the main aim of the present reform is to narrow the gap between the aspirations and achievements of the United Nations. We think that establishing the position of Deputy Secretary-General, setting up a Senior Management Group, creating a Strategic Planning Unit and strengthening the executive committees of the sectoral groups, together with a number of other suggestions, constitute an interesting and comprehensive approach that will ensure the harmonious management and functioning of this Organization as it tackles the new and complex tasks of the twenty-first century. We are of the view that, given the numerous pressing problems, the maintenance of peace and security throughout the world must continue to be the main mission of our Organization. In this regard, Azerbaijan welcomes and supports the Secretary-General’s ideas on strengthening the potential of the United Nations in post- conflict peace-building, with the Department of Political Affairs as the focal point for this. This matter is integrally linked to the issue of advancing the disarmament agenda. Accordingly, the idea of establishing a Department for Disarmament and Arms Regulation, which would address the reduction and regulation of armaments and weapons of mass destruction, deserves every support. With regard to disarmament as a whole, I would like to dwell on the urgent problem of the proliferation of conventional arms. The lack of norms regulating conventional arms causes serious concern. One cannot but agree with the Secretary-General when he says that such a situation creates a vicious circle, in that Member States seek assistance in the settlement of armed conflicts, while there is tough competition over arms exports, including exports to conflict areas where the United Nations is seeking to restore peace. All of this leads to the further escalation and prolongation of conflicts. The expansion of the Security Council is a pressing, acute and complex issue. We believe that any increase in the number of permanent members of the Security Council must be confined to countries with the capacity and will to assume global responsibility, including financial responsibility, for the maintenance of international peace and security, and for sustainable development and stability. In this context, Azerbaijan has on several occasions spoken in favour of the candidatures of Germany and Japan, which in our view meet those requirements. An increase in the number of non-permanent members of the Security Council should restore the principle of equitable geographic allocation of seats for all regional groups. In this connection, Azerbaijan supports an increase in the number of non-permanent members of the Security Council from the Group of Eastern European States, given that membership of the Group has doubled in the past five years. We believe that one non-permanent seat for our Group in the Security Council does not reflect the current state of affairs and is not commensurate with the role played by the members of the 8 Group in the maintenance of international peace and security. Azerbaijan also supports the approach taken to the question of equitable representation of Asian, African, Latin American and Caribbean States in the Council. The issue of the total number of permanent and non-permanent members of the Security Council should first be addressed from the perspective of maintaining and upgrading the efficiency of the Council. We fully support the Secretary-General’s idea that one of the main directions for United Nations reform must be to strengthen United Nations activities in the area of coordination of international cooperation for development. We are convinced that at a time when the question of more rational use of United Nations resources, including financial resources, has become a priority, the Secretary- General’s decision to focus on the activities that the United Nations can best carry out, from the standpoint both of using existing intellectual potential and of meeting the requirements of a large group of members of the international community, is very wise. The Azerbaijani Republic greatly appreciates the nature and results of its cooperation with the United Nations system in the area of socio-economic development. Since our country joined the United Nations, dozens of large-scale development projects have been implemented in Azerbaijan with help from United Nations specialized agencies. These projects have had a positive impact on the all-round transformation of Azerbaijani society. I would like to make particular mention of the establishment of a free economic zone in the third largest city of Azerbaijan, Sumgait, and the programme to rehabilitate the territories of Azerbaijan liberated from Armenian occupation. We welcome the idea of establishing a United Nations Development Group, and we believe that strengthening coordination in the activities of the various agencies will add to the efficiency of the operational development activities of the Organization. Among the factors that could help us achieve this goal are the elaboration of a comprehensive strategy for the activities of specialized agencies vis-à-vis the recipient countries, the elimination of overlap in functions and programmes, a renewed concentration on priorities, and the improvement of partnership mechanisms with State institutions and non- governmental organizations of Member States. But all these good wishes and hopes may prove to be simply an unattainable dream if they are not accompanied by a relevant resource base. In this respect, Mr. Kofi Annan’s idea of creating a new system for mobilizing core resources for development purposes, through voluntary contributions and negotiated pledges that would be made available in multi-year tranches, is to be commended and supported. We are convinced that it is necessary to provide the broadest possible mandate for the Secretary-General’s proposed Office for Development Financing. We welcome the Secretary-General’s proposal to deepen and expand the partnership between the United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions with a view to strengthening cooperation and increasing the rationalization and coordination of activities. In recent years Azerbaijan has accumulated considerable experience through fruitful cooperation with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Thanks to this cooperation it has been possible to improve the overall economic situation in the Republic, to curb rampant inflation and restore economic growth. Reforming the structure of the Secretariat departments dealing with social and economic matters and conferring new functions on the Economic and Social Council are, in our view, logical elements of the comprehensive reform programme proposed by the Secretary-General. At the same time, it is obvious that reform will not produce the best results if the finances of the Organization are not put into good order. Given this fact, we understand the proposal for the establishment, as a temporary measure until the Organization’s financial situation is on a solid basis, of a Revolving Credit Fund with initial capital of up to $1 billion financed from voluntary contributions or other means that Member States may wish to suggest. In this connection we also fully support the Secretary-General’s proposal to open a development account. We are also firmly convinced that reforming the personnel policy of the United Nations should be an inseparable part of the reform. We are deeply concerned by the fact that even today Azerbaijan is still not represented in the Secretariat. In recent years the world has been overwhelmed by a wave of extraordinary situations resulting from armed conflict, natural disasters and economic crises. As a 9 consequence of these situations millions of people have lost their homes, been deprived of food and basic living conditions and have become refugees and displaced persons. This issue is of particular relevance to Azerbaijan, as refugees and displaced persons in the Republic are in dire need of emergency humanitarian assistance. Recently, several regions of Azerbaijan suffered flooding as a result of continuous rainfall, which inflicted serious damage on the economy and the people. Azerbaijan greatly appreciates the humanitarian activities of the United Nations aimed at protecting and saving the victims of armed conflict and natural disasters. We fully endorse the idea contained in the Secretary- General’s report that humanitarian actions today extend beyond the mere provision of relief and also entail early warning, prevention, advocacy and rehabilitation as well as assistance for transition to long-term development. At the same time we hope that structural changes — such as the creation of the Office of the Emergency Relief Coordinator to replace the Department of Humanitarian Affairs and the mobilizing of its efforts to deal more effectively with complex emergencies — will not result in a decrease in humanitarian assistance for single recipient countries that are faced with the consequences of armed conflicts, foreign aggression and occupation and that have hundreds of thousands — even millions — of refugees and displaced persons. This also applies to the suggested reforms of the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), of whose Executive Board Azerbaijan is a member. We believe it necessary to maintain the independence of UNICEF in the areas of fund-raising and contacts with donors to ensure contributions for funding the programmes of the organization and accountability to donors with regard to how the funds are spent. We consider it important that the specialized agencies continue to have specific goals and mechanisms to achieve those goals. At the same time we support the proposals regarding a common starting point, close coordination and interaction, and the adoption of measures to avoid overlap and the dissipation of resources. UNICEF’s mandate includes not only the development of children, but their protection and survival. The United Nations Children’s Fund, together with such entities as the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the World Food Programme, becomes actively involved in saving the lives of children in emergencies. There is an effective mechanism for interaction between UNICEF and humanitarian organizations, donors, Governments and local and international non-governmental organizations. We hope that the establishment of the United Nations Development Group will not weaken but, on the contrary, strengthen this function of UNICEF. We support the idea of common premises for United Nations missions at the country level, to be called “UN House”. This would certainly encourage closer and more effective interaction between specialized agencies and United Nations programmes. As for Resident Coordinators, we believe it would be expedient to select them from representatives of all interested organizations. A mechanism such as rotation should be worked out for this. We also support the idea of convening joint committees and consecutive meetings of relevant executive boards. On the eve of the twenty-first century, it is high time to consolidate the efforts of all countries for a resolute attack on crime, drug abuse and terrorism. Organized underworld groups that enjoy access to sophisticated technologies and weaponry are challenging law and order as well as economic, political and other institutions, not only in individual countries but in entire regions and throughout the world. The United Nations must be at the forefront of the battle to curtail the activities of such groups. At the same time, we need to ensure that the efforts of the international community are centralized if we are to succeed in crushing crime and drug abuse. In this context we support the idea of uniting the United Nations International Drug Control Programme with a new Centre for International Crime Prevention to create a new Office for Drug Control and Crime Prevention, to be located in Vienna. Ensuring human rights remains one of the most important of the Organization’s fields of activity. It is especially urgent today when the issue of human rights permeates all aspects of public life and is equally relevant to all countries and all regions of the world. Human rights are closely connected with political, economic, social and other processes. The events of recent years have demonstrated that expansionist actions on the part of some States, aggressive separatism and economic difficulties deprive States of their ability adequately to defend and ensure the human rights of their citizens. That is why the United Nations will have to strengthen its activities, exposing and neutralizing the factors that lead to human rights abuse. We approve in particular of the measures recommended by the Secretary-General with regard to existing or potential conflicts or post-conflict situations affecting human rights. 10 We believe it right to suggest that the issue of human rights must be considered to an equal degree in all four substantive fields of the Secretariat’s work programme: peace and security, economic and social affairs, development cooperation and humanitarian affairs. In the context of enhancing the work of the Organization’s divisions in the field of human rights, we commend the consolidation of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Centre for Human Rights into a single Office of the High Commissioner. This will strengthen that entity and lay the groundwork for more efficient use of available human and financial resources. The Secretary-General’s report “Renewing the United Nations: A Programme for Reform” (A/51/950) is a comprehensive and far-reaching set of changes aimed at overhauling the Organization. The quintessential idea of the report that reform should constitute a continuous and steady process, not a quick fix, is of particular significance. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the suggested measures and recommendations are aimed both at creating new structures of leadership and management and at harmonizing the activities of all bodies of the United Nations.  ﻿I should like at the outset to extend my warmest compliments to His Excellency Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko, Foreign Minister of Ukraine, on his assumption last week of the presidency of the fifty-second session of the General Assembly. Japan will cooperate closely with him for the success of this session. I should also like to pay sincere tribute to His Excellency Mr. Razali Ismail, who, as President of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly, demonstrated active initiative for strengthening the functions of the United Nations through reform. Japan earnestly hopes that Ambassador Razali will continue to contribute his views for the advancement of United Nations reform. 5 This session of the General Assembly will be an “Assembly for reform”. I say this because the current session is of unprecedented importance in terms of realizing the reform of the United Nations. I should like to recall what the purpose of United Nations reform is. The purpose of reforming the United Nations is, I believe, to strengthen its functions to further enable it to fully accomplish its tasks. As a member of the Security Council, Japan is deeply aware that since the end of the Cold War grave problems of conflicts and poverty have emerged, most frequently and acutely in Africa. By reforming the United Nations, the international community will be better able to solve the problems of peoples in all parts of the world who are suffering due to conflicts and poverty, problems which are especially glaring in Africa. We must begin immediately to strengthen the United Nations in this respect and continue our efforts into the future. Japan intends to play the role which is expected of it in the strengthened United Nations. I regard highly the strong initiatives of the Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan, in promoting reform. In particular, his proposals for United Nations reform announced in March and July of this year are intended to enhance the coherence and effectiveness of United Nations activities by strengthening the leadership of the Secretary- General as well as the coordination function in each field, including development and humanitarian affairs; as such, they have Japan’s basic support. We earnestly hope that the reform of the United Nations as a whole will gather momentum through these proposals. If the United Nations is unable to reform itself to meet the demands of the coming era, but simply engages in an aimless repetition of detailed arguments in which each Member State pursues its own interests, the confidence of the international community in the Organization will be severely undermined. We must be aware that at this moment we are standing at a crucial crossroads. It is the very moment at which we must summon the political will to decide on the outlines of United Nations reform. Japan believes that each Member State should, in a spirit of statesmanship, engage in substantive negotiations, not from the viewpoint of pursuing its own parochial interests but from the genuinely broad perspective of maximizing benefits to the international community as a whole. Japan believes that reforms relating to the Security Council, finance and development are the three pillars of United Nations reform. Today, the Security Council is attentive to the economic and social aspects of the conflicts it seeks to resolve. Moreover, in order to establish a sound financial basis, it is necessary that all the activities of the United Nations, including those in the fields of development and peacekeeping, be rendered more effective. Serious efforts in the area of development are also important for ensuring international peace and security. It is therefore essential that reform in these three areas be achieved as a whole in a balanced manner in order for the United Nations, the sole universal organization, to respond appropriately to the dramatically changing context of the international community and to be better able to discharge its functions. Now I would like to reiterate Japan’s views on some of the most important points regarding the United Nations reform effort. First, the reform of the Security Council. Needless to say, the international community is vastly different today from what it was 51 years ago, when the United Nations was founded. Broadly speaking, this is reflected in the following two ways. First, in addition to those States that were originally expected to assume primary responsibility for international peace and security, other States have newly emerged with the capacity and the willingness to play a global role. Secondly, many States have in the meantime become independent, and today they represent a majority in the international community, in which they have become important players. Particularly in the wake of the cold war, the Security Council is expected to play an even greater role in the area of international peace and security. To meet such expectations, it is essential that it be reorganized to adapt to these two changes, thereby enhancing its legitimacy and effectiveness. This is the very essence of Security Council reform. It is with such a reformed and strengthened Security Council that effective measures to resolve, for example, the frequent conflicts in regions such as Africa become possible. It is from this perspective that many States, including my own, are advocating the expansion of both permanent and non-permanent membership. If the reform were to result in an expansion of only the non-permanent membership, the Council’s legitimacy and effectiveness 6 would not be enhanced and genuine reform to adapt to the changing times would not have been accomplished. This year, under the leadership of former General Assembly President Razali, discussions on Security Council reform have gained greater momentum than ever before. Japan strongly urges that we seize this opportunity to decide on at least a framework for Security Council reform and reach an agreement on an outline for the realization of concrete reform by the end of the year. I should like to reiterate that Japan, with the endorsement of many countries, is prepared to discharge its responsibilities as a permanent member of the Security Council in accordance with its basic philosophy of the non-resort to the use of force, prohibited by its Constitution. I shall touch next on financial reform. Today a further retrenchment by the United Nations in the area of finance is required, and Japan regards highly the Secretary- General’s efforts towards this end. The Government of Japan is itself currently pursuing drastic reform of its financial structure, with the aim of bringing its financial deficit below 3 per cent of gross domestic product by the year 2003. It is also essential for the United Nations to secure a solid financial basis for itself. In this regard, I would emphasize again that it is the obligation of Member States to pay their assessed contributions in full, and that Member States in arrears should make every effort to eliminate them. It goes without saying that the expenses of the Organization must be apportioned more equitably. As regards the basis for calculating the scale of assessments, Japan has advocated adopting the concept of “responsibility to pay” to complement the present method, which is based on the principle of “capacity to pay”. Japan’s assessment is about to reach that of the United States, and it is already almost as great as the assessments of the other four permanent members combined. If Japan’s assessment were to increase further out of proportion, with reform of the Security Council not yet realized, I must say there would be a problem with respect to the fairness of such a situation. Japan strongly hopes that the financial reform of the United Nations will proceed together with reforms in other areas as a whole in a balanced manner, and that agreement on an equitable scale of assessments can be achieved. The third point relates to reform in the area of development. Development and peace are, so to speak, two sides of the same coin. Without development, the causes of conflicts will not be eliminated, and without peace the conditions for development will not be met. Under its present Constitution, Japan has continued to attach great importance to contributing to international peace through its active involvement in development issues and humanitarian assistance efforts. Involvement in development issues is a matter of priority for my country, and its commitment to the development of developing countries remains unchanged. Japan has been insisting that a “new development strategy”, based on a genuine partnership between developed and developing countries, is particularly necessary in this post-cold-war era. Consideration of the Agenda for Development has concluded recently. We believe it is important that the new philosophy, based on the ownership of developing countries and on a genuine partnership, be widely shared in the United Nations. Towards this end, in July of this year Japan held the Okinawa Conference on Development, and this month co- hosted with the Kingdom of the Netherlands the Conference on the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development/Development Assistance Committee (OECD/DAC) Strategy “Shaping the Twenty- first Century: The Contribution of Development Cooperation”. We are thus exploring ways of promoting and realizing this strategy. Through such efforts by Japan, it is becoming widely recognized that South-South cooperation, fortified with the new dimension of triangular cooperation, is an important means of promoting this strategy. We regard the Secretary-General’s proposals to establish a United Nations development group and to consolidate United Nations offices at the country level to be very worthwhile in terms of increasing efficiency. United Nations reform must not be a euphemism for budget-cutting. From this point of view, Japan, with the support of many States, has been advocating the idea of reinvesting in development programmes the savings that accrue from reforms. We urge that this proposal, which is reflected in the Secretary-General’s reform plan, be quickly implemented. In addition, Japan hopes that the year 2001 will be designated as the International Year of Volunteers in order to encourage more active participation in United Nations activities at the grass-roots level. Setting development on track and eradicating poverty in Africa are necessary for the fundamental solution of the conflicts that frequently occur in that region. Bearing this in mind, Japan has been focusing its efforts on African development issues. At Japan’s initiative, plans are under way to hold the second Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD II) at the 7 ministerial level next year in Tokyo, following a preparatory meeting, also in Tokyo, at the senior-official level in November of this year. We would like to ask the States concerned to cooperate for the success of these conferences and for the achievement of substantive progress in promoting African development. Ever since becoming a Member in 1956, Japan has consistently pursued a foreign policy that attaches importance to the United Nations. Since January of this year, thanks to the support of many countries, Japan has been serving its eighth term as a non-permanent member of the Security Council. It has been actively cooperating in United Nations peacekeeping operations and efforts for the prevention and settlement of regional conflicts. Next January, Japan will convene the International Conference on Preventive Strategy, which Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto proposed at the fifty-first session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. We anticipate that concrete proposals will be made at that conference as to how cooperation between the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity, and the strengthening of the functions of the United Nations through such measures as reform of the Security Council, can contribute to the prevention and early resolution of conflicts in Africa. I am also pleased to announce that next March Japan plans to convene in Tokyo an international conference on the present situation and future prospects of United Nations peacekeeping operations. Japan is also hosting the third session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Kyoto this December to decide on international measures to prevent global warming to be taken after the year 2000. Global warming is a critical issue, with implications for the future of humankind, and its solution will require the efforts of every country, including developing countries. Japan is sparing no effort to ensure the success of this conference and its adoption of a protocol that is meaningful, realistic and equitable, and I would earnestly ask for the cooperation of all participating countries. Next year we shall observe the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. I expect the United Nations to further strengthen its role in the areas of human rights and refugee and humanitarian assistance. Japan will also continue to contribute actively in these areas. In addition, disarmament efforts, as well as the regime for the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, must be further strengthened for the sake of world peace and stability. Japan will also emphasize at this session the importance of steady and cumulative efforts to take realistic nuclear disarmament measures, aiming for a world free of nuclear weapons. We will also participate actively in discussions on anti-personnel landmines, the review of the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms and the question of small arms. The twenty-first century will arrive in less than four years. In order to make the next century brighter, the United Nations should reform itself to be ready for the new era. If it is to do so, an agreement on the outline of United Nations reform must be reached this year. Let us join forces to ensure that the world in the twenty-first century is stable and prosperous. This will require that we greet the twenty-first century with United Nations reforms achieved. I should like to conclude my statement by stressing the profound importance of strengthening the United Nations — the only universal international Organization.  ﻿Let me impart at the outset the sad news I received early today of the aerial bombardment by the Taliban of the city of Mazar-i- Sharif, the sixteenth consecutive bombardment in just two days. These bombardments have taken as many as 150 lives among the civilian population of the city, mostly women and children. I express outrage and condemnation at this cowardly act of terror, which typifies the Taliban’s gross violation of international humanitarian law and their relentless belligerence against every norm recognized by the world today. I stand before the Assembly and the world community in the tradition of past Afghan representatives — with the exception of those during the years of occupation — representing an independent, sovereign and non-aligned Afghanistan. One year ago, our Foreign Minister, the late Abdul Rahim Ghafoorzai, stood on this podium to explain the dark and ominous movement known as the Taliban, which — backed by foreign forces — had invaded Afghanistan. Tragically, Mr. Ghafoorzai died in the 19 service of his nation. So today it is my duty to stand before the Assembly to explain the struggle the Afghan people have waged against these mercenaries. When the Taliban entered Kabul on 27 September 1996 their first act was to storm the United Nations complex. The past 12 months have seen a seemingly endless series of edicts issued by the Taliban in areas of Afghanistan that they claim to control. Under those edicts, they have in fact imprisoned every woman and terrorized every man. Their latest ignominious act has been to arrest Emma Bonino, the European Union Commissioner for Humanitarian Affairs, her aides and a group of visiting international journalists, including CNN’s Christiane Amanpour. Outraged by the Taliban’s act, the German Foreign Minister, Mr. Klaus Kinkel, said that he considered it a slap in the face and an act of “cynical disregard for the entire European Union”. The group was eventually released, but not before at least two of its members were beaten with the butt of a Kalashnikov rifle. Ms. Bonino told Reuters that the experience had given her a taste of what Afghans go through every day under the Taliban. “This is an example of what people here go through every day: in a situation of random terror.” [Reuters News Wire, “EC commissioner released by Taleban,” 29 September 1997] An Afghan quoted in The New York Times of 24 September 1997 stated, “Most days I wake up thinking we’d all be better off dead than under these fanatics.” These are just a couple of facts to open a small window onto the gloom and despair facing our people. As this terror continues in Afghanistan, we are here today to discuss the Afghan question, which is now an international issue. As the crisis in Afghanistan continues to unfold, we must ask — and answer — important questions, questions to be answered particularly by those who, under the guise of neutrality, equate the aggressors with the victims of aggression. Those questions are: Who is following the rules of the civilized world? Whose actions warrant recognition? Who deserves to participate in civilized discussion at a global level? On the battlefield, we continue, of course, to defend ourselves and our nation. In this imposed war, we are taking what we consider to be the moral high ground of negotiation and dialogue. The Islamic State of Afghanistan — like many others in the world, including some prominent Pakistani politicians and commentators — still identifies Pakistani intervention and interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan as the root cause of the prolonged conflict and the subsequent suffering of our people. Pakistan constantly alleges that the Taliban control two thirds of Afghanistan, including Kabul, where peace prevails. Mr. William Maley, the renowned Australian expert on Afghanistan, stated earlier in the year that the Taliban brought peace to Kabul in the same sense that Hitler brought peace to Warsaw. On 7 August 1997, Mr. Gohar Ayub Khan, the Foreign Minister of Pakistan, said: “In Afghanistan ... the majority in the country is Pakhtoons, who are 60 per cent. The other groups, including Uzbeks, Tajiks, Hazaras and Ismailis collectively, constitute about 40 per cent.” The Pakistani Foreign Minister is blatantly inventing fraudulent statistics to fuel the flames of ethnic hatred and conflict in Afghanistan and to justify Pakistani objectives. No valid statistics could claim that any ethnic group in Afghanistan — Pakhtoon, Tajik, Uzbek or other — constituted more than 37 per cent of the population. If Pakistan continues its irresponsible policy of perpetrating ethnic hatred in Afghanistan, a consequential escalation of “ethnic cleansing” will threaten the national unity of our country. Pakistan maintains that it has no favourites in Afghanistan. The reality is that the Pakistani establishment has designated one group of Afghans to be the natural rulers over all the rest and conceivably to turn Afghanistan into a subservient protectorate State. The reality was best expressed by Fred Halliday, an international affairs specialist at the London School of Economics, who wrote last November: “The capture by Taliban guerrillas of the Afghan capital, Kabul, however short- or long-lived, has come after two years of one of the most obnoxious interventions by one State in the affairs of 20 another in many years. Reported in the West as an indigenous struggle, in fact Pakistan set up the Taliban as a semi-regular fighting force in 1994 ... providing them with ... guns, money, fuel and technical support ... Since its creation in 1947, Pakistan has harboured the goal of dominating its northern neighbour.” [The Nation, “Kabul’s Patriarchy with Guns”, 11 November 1996, p. 19] And, finally, the Pakistani Government, by proposing the dubious “vacant-seat” formula for Afghanistan, strives to expel from the United Nations a country that has been a member of this global body since before the birth of Pakistan. My delegation is grateful to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for having summarized the tragic situation in Afghanistan in his address to the fifty-second session of the General Assembly on 22 September 1997. According to General Assembly resolution 51/195 B, which was adopted unanimously on 17 December 1996, and fully supported by the Islamic State of Afghanistan, the Assembly is “Strongly committed to the sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and national unity of Afghanistan”. [resolution 51/195 B, seventh preambular paragraph] The General Assembly also stressed “the importance of non-intervention and non- interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan”. [ibid., sixteenth preambular paragraph] Unfortunately, since last year the supply of weapons and ammunition from abroad has massively increased and constitutes a very important programme of action by the powerful Pakistani intelligence service, Inter-Service Intelligence (ISI). The situation has also worsened with regard to what the resolution called “actions undermining the security of State frontiers, including the growing illicit traffic in arms and narcotics by criminal elements and groups from [Taliban occupied] areas of Afghanistan and ... the use of [occupied] Afghan territory for the training and harbouring of terrorists”. [ibid., eighteenth preambular paragraph] It is amazing that some of the countries that consider terrorism a threat to peace should nonetheless — while claiming impartiality — favour the rejectionist Taliban by equating them with the Government of the Islamic State of Afghanistan, which shares the mounting concerns of the General Assembly in this matter. With regard to the peace process, we share the view that “the main responsibility for finding a political solution to the conflict lies with the Afghan parties”. [ibid., paragraph 2] The Taliban, however, favoured, encouraged and assisted by the cross-border political and military support, consider their only responsibility to be the waging of an aggressive war aimed at conquering the whole of Afghan territory by crushing all resistance movements. The Taliban’s intransigence and disregard for United Nations General Assembly and Security Council resolutions calling for a peaceful settlement of the Afghan problem are a fact well known to the international community. The report of the Secretary-General dated 16 March 1997 indicates that: “The Taliban, judging both from their words and from their activities on the ground, appear determined to gain military and political control of the whole of Afghanistan and to establish their vision of an Islamic State”. [A/51/838, paragraph 7] The Secretary-General’s report (A/51/929) of 16 June 1997 equally illustrates Taliban’s choice of the military option and its intention to overrun the country by force. This utterly bellicose position of the Taliban, while prolonging the suffering of the Afghan people is aggravating the concerns of the countries in the region, which views it as a serious threat to the region’s peace and security. It is worth mentioning that the Taliban’s aggressive attitude is encouraged by military intelligence services of neighbouring Pakistan, which still hopes to install a puppet regime in Kabul, subservient to its expansionist and hegemonic desires. The dull-minded interventionists should read the history of Afghanistan once again and learn from the defeat of previous aggressors in this homeland of dauntless and courageous people. We are fully aware 21 “that a cessation of armed hostilities ... and political stability are indispensable if reconstruction measures are to have a lasting effect”. (Resolution 51/195 A, eighth preambular paragraph) The Taliban have expressed no interest in the urgently needed reconstruction of the country. In fact, starvation by blockade is their favourite weapon against Afghans. We express our full “support for the continuing efforts of the United Nations Special Mission to Afghanistan” (Resolution 51/195 B, thirteenth preambular paragraph) led by Mr. Norbert Holl, and the special assignment on 30 July 1997 of Ambassador Lakhdar Brahimi as Special Envoy of the Secretary-General to assess the situation and the role of the United Nations in Afghanistan. We reaffirm the full support of our Government for the “activities of the United Nations Special Mission to Afghanistan, in facilitating ... in cooperation with [neighbouring and] interested States and international organizations, the political process towards the goals of national reconciliation and a lasting political settlement with the participation of all parties to the conflict”. (ibid., paragraph 5) Because of the shortage of time, I am omitting some paragraphs from my prepared text. The Taliban have refused to negotiate any political settlement and have insisted on a unilateral military solution. The Islamic State of Afghanistan honours “its commitments regarding the safety and full freedom of movement of United Nations personnel, in particular the personnel of the United Nations Special Mission, as well as the security of their premises in Afghanistan.” (ibid., paragraph 7) Recently, however, as a result of the disturbances brought about on 14 September 1997 by Taliban infiltration, the premises belonging to international aid agencies and non-governmental organizations in the city of Mazar-i-Sharif were plundered. This city was previously a haven of peace and security. The Islamic State of Afghanistan remains committed to the safety of the United Nations personnel and the personnel of other aid agencies in Afghanistan. The Islamic State of Afghanistan, in the light of the mounting needs of the Afghan people, appeals to all donor agencies not to abandon Afghanistan, particularly in the face of the upcoming harsh winter. Security Council document S/1997/588 of 25 July 1997 explains the Islamic State of Afghanistan’s agreement to a Declaration of the United National and Islamic Front for the Salvation of Afghanistan, the foundation for an enlarged body representing all ethnic groups from all over Afghanistan. The Declaration addresses an appeal in favour of the peace process to the Taliban and the Pakistani Government. We favour “An immediate and durable ceasefire among the Afghan parties, to be supervised by a commission composed of representatives of all the warring parties, facilitated by the United Nations”. (ibid., paragraph 8) One of the most important elements in the General Assembly and Security Council resolutions on Afghanistan is the call for “demilitarization of Kabul, with adequate safeguards to ensure security and public order”. (ibid.) The Islamic State of Afghanistan considers this point to be very important. It could constitute a credible precedent that could be applied in the future in other parts of the country. The “establishment of a broad-based and fully representative authoritative council” (ibid.) as required by the General Assembly resolution, will be feasible if the appeal of the United Front inviting the Taliban to join the Front is heard. The Islamic State of Afghanistan, in this regard, extends its full cooperation to the United Nations. It is imperative to secure the agreement of the Taliban with the United Nations and to ensure its full cooperation with such a broad-based authoritative council. 22 We are ready to cooperate for the creation of “a national security force to provide for security throughout the country and oversee the demobilization of all the warring parties through the collection and safeguarding of all heavy weapons in the country, and to stop the flow of arms and of equipment related to arms production to the parties”. (ibid.) We are grateful to the leaders and Governments of the central Asian republics of Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan and Turkmenistan for their respective proposed peace initiatives, as well as to the Islamic Republic of Iran. Apart from supplementing each other, these initiatives may be coordinated so as to lead to the convening of useful negotiations with a specific agenda under the auspices of the United Nations. The proposals, however, thus far have not been accepted by the Taliban. The General Assembly deplored “the civilian casualties inflicted by the indiscriminate use of landmines.” (ibid., paragraph 11) The Taliban have recently spread landmines in and around the northern city of Kunduz. This is only one example of Taliban mass use of landmines. The Islamic State of Afghanistan shares the General Assembly’s deep concern over and denunciation of “the discrimination against women and girls and other recurring abuses of human rights in Afghanistan ... emphasizing the importance of democracy and of the realization of human rights in any future political process in Afghanistan”. (ibid., ninth preambular paragraph) Mr. Lloyd Axworthy, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Canada, said in his statement of 25 September in this Assembly: “Canadian women, appalled at the treatment of their sisters in Afghanistan, have started a letter-writing campaign. I will be delivering some 5,000 letters today to the Secretary-General, which call on him to take the lead in exposing the gross human rights violations of women in Afghanistan as unacceptable in the eyes of the world’s citizens.” [See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-second Session, Plenary Meetings, 12th meeting] We draw the attention of the General Assembly to the recent document (A/52/384) containing the Declaration of Principles made by the United Islamic and National Front for the Salvation of Afghanistan, adopted on 20 September 1997 by the Islamic State of Afghanistan. The Declaration, systematizing a political framework for the country, contains the following principles: first, the principle of Islam; secondly, the principle of independence and international cooperation; thirdly, the principles of democracy and pluralism; fourthly, the principles of election and delegation of authority to local administration; and, fifthly, the principle of human rights. The General Assembly last year called on “all States strictly to refrain from any outside interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan, including the involvement of foreign military personnel”. (Resolution 51/195 B, paragraph 15) Regarding the involvement of Pakistani military personnel in Afghanistan, the Government of the Islamic State of Afghanistan has transmitted amply documented information to the United Nations. The book, entitled The Not-So-Hidden Hand — produced by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Islamic State of Afghanistan — has been distributed to the members of the Security Council, some other interested countries and the Secretariat of the United Nations. This book — I will not go through it; it is a big book — documents directly and proves the physical presence of Pakistani paramilitary and military personnel inside Afghanistan, fighting alongside the Taliban against the Islamic State of Afghanistan. The book includes, first, identification photos of each Pakistani captive, prisoner registration forms with detailed descriptions, fingerprints and other data pertaining to each; secondly, identification cards taken from some prisoners that illustrate their membership in extremist Pakistani organizations responsible for terrorist acts in South Asia, such as Anjuman-i-Sipah-e-Sahaba Pakistan; and thirdly, correspondence from most of the prisoners to their families in Pakistan, written mostly in Urdu — the official Pakistani language, which is not spoken in Afghanistan. I should like to remind the Assembly that on 3 July 1997 Mr. Francis Okelo, the Deputy Head of the United Nations Special Mission to Afghanistan, together with a 23 United Nations military adviser, paid a visit to Maimana prison in northern Afghanistan and verified the physical presence of Pakistani military prisoners in the prison. And The News of 6 September 1997 — printed in Islamabad — contains an article entitled “Pakistanis in Masood’s captivity plead for release”. The General Assembly called upon all States immediately to end the supply of arms, ammunition, military equipment, training or any other military support to all parties to the conflict in Afghanistan. Furthermore, document A/52/403, dated 29 September 1997, confirms the recent dispatch of some 600 additional military personnel and that shipments of arms from Pakistan to Afghanistan have significantly increased. The General Assembly has reiterated that the continuation of the conflict in Afghanistan provides a fertile ground for terrorism and drug trafficking, which destabilize the region and beyond. The United Nations Information Service reported on 11 September 1997 a rise in opium- poppy production in Afghanistan to 2,800 metric tons in 1997, an estimated 25 per cent increase over 1996. Mr. Derek Fatchett, a Minister in Britain’s Foreign Office, pointed out in The Guardian of 25 June 1997 that the Taliban war chest is financed by drug money. Furthermore, 96.4 per cent of Afghanistan’s total opium production originates in provinces currently under Taliban control, according to the United Nations Information Service report. Afghanistan, as a State party to the Convention for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage of 23 November 1972, has recognized its primary duty to ensure the identification, protection, conservation, preservation and transmission to future generations of, inter alia, the cultural heritage situated in the country. The General Assembly has called upon all Afghan parties to take appropriate steps to prohibit, prevent and, if necessary, put a stop to any form of theft, pillage or misappropriation of and any acts of vandalism directed against, cultural property of the Afghan nation. The Taliban, however, on 17 April 1997, out of fanaticism expressed its intention to demolish the two largest statues of Buddha in the world. In spite of great concern by the Secretary-General and Mr. Federico Mayor, Director of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), and many Buddhist leaders throughout the world, the Taliban did not exhibit any change of attitude. Fortunately, its military push was repulsed and the colossal statues remain intact. In this context, reference should be made to the ancient artifacts plundered from the rich Kabul National Museum. According to Pakistani press reports, the artifacts have been added to the personal collections of the former Pakistani Prime Minister, Benazir Bhutto, and the former Minister of the Interior, Nasirullah Babar. On behalf of the people of Afghanistan, I call upon the Pakistanis to return these irreplaceable Afghan artifacts, which are also part of the world’s cultural heritage. I urge UNESCO to investigate the matter. I should like to announce that the delegation of the Islamic State of Afghanistan, together with some other countries of the third world, will co-sponsor the draft resolution entitled “Towards a culture of peace,” submitted under agenda item 156. My delegation also supports the resolution of the Economic and Social Council adopted in Geneva entitled “Proclamation of the Year 2000 as the International Year for the Culture of Peace”. We want to establish the best fraternal relations with Pakistan and other neighbouring countries. Afghanistan’s pivotal location places it, as always, at the crossroads of different corners of Asia. Naturally, no regional economic cooperation — in the context of the transit of goods, petroleum and natural gas — can succeed without a peaceful Afghanistan enjoying administrative unity. Afghanistan must cease to exist as a country of confrontation, discord and clashes. Rather, it must turn into a land of interrelation, association, joint action and cooperation. This is the genuine desire of all patriotic Afghans and of the true friends of Afghanistan. Fifty-two years ago, the United Nations was founded on the paramount ideals of a safer world and on parameters of global peace and collective security. The Foreign Minister of Italy, His Excellency Mr. Lamberto Dini, said in his speech last week before the General Assembly: “We no longer live in a world of purely national interests. More and more, policy-making is informed by global concerns such as human rights, solidarity and social justice. At the threshold of the twenty-first century, let us pledge to settle religious and ethnic conflicts through dialogue, tolerance and cultural exchange, and to find collective answers to international terrorism, organized crime, drug trafficking and the degradation of the environment.” Let me from this rostrum remind all of us here, as the general debate draws to a close, that we must ask ourselves about the level of our commitment to the implementation of the ideals I have mentioned.  ﻿The delegation of Ghana congratulates His Excellency Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session. His long experience in the affairs of this Organization and the great qualities which he brings to this high office assure us that under his wise guidance the work of this session will be fruitful and constructive. To that end my delegation pledges to him its full support and cooperation. My delegation also wishes to pay a special tribute to his distinguished predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Razali Ismail, who conducted the business of the fifty-first session with remarkable zeal and efficiency. The promptitude and energy with which he discharged his responsibilities as President has left an enduring imprint on the work of this Organization. To our distinguished Secretary-General and my compatriot, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, we wish to express our deep appreciation for his sterling qualities of leadership. The people of Ghana are indeed grateful to the world community for having chosen a son to head this very high and important body. Barely nine months after assuming his onerous responsibilities, Kofi Annan has demonstrated an indefatigable energy and commitment to the reform and efficient management of the Organization to enable it to measure up to the purposes and objectives of its existence. We pledge to him our continued unflinching support. At the fifty-first session, Member States warmly welcomed the conclusion of the Pelindaba and Bangkok Treaties establishing a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Africa and South-East Asia respectively. We also welcomed the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, which has since been signed by the vast majority of States, including my own. We view these as progressive steps on the road to nuclear disarmament. We therefore renew our call on the nuclear-weapon States to cooperate with the rest of the international community for the commencement and early conclusion of multilateral negotiations on a universal and binding convention prohibiting the development, production, stockpiling and use of nuclear weapons, and mandating the destruction of the existing stockpiles. We make these appeals not as an annual ritual but because of our deep conviction that the elimination of weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, will go a long way to promote international peace and security, a principal purpose for which this Organization was established. While weapons of mass destruction deserve the priority attention accorded them by this Assembly, the question of conventional weapons cannot be ignored either. The illicit transfer and use of this category of armaments are a source of great concern, since they constitute a threat to the stability of States and fuel the numerous conflicts which bedevil the world today, particularly in Africa. They also provide terrorists, drug barons and other criminals the means with which to pursue their illegal activities. We must adopt all available means to curb the illicit traffic. In the same vein, we support ongoing international initiatives to conclude a treaty banning the production, transfer and use of anti- personnel landmines, which continue to kill and maim innocent people and disrupt the economic and social life of millions, long after the end of the conflicts in which they were laid. Though the end of the cold war has greatly reduced the threat of another global war, which twice in this century brought untold sorrow to mankind, intra-country conflicts and civil wars continue to wreak havoc in 17 several countries, with resultant loss of lives, destruction of national infrastructure, displacement of innocent persons and outflow of refugees into neighbouring countries. In Afghanistan, Cambodia, the former Yugoslavia, Somalia, Angola, Liberia and Sierra Leone and the Republic of the Congo, we see the havoc caused by this new trend and its potential threat to regional and subregional security. We in Africa are all the more concerned. For while the international community is prompt to react to conflicts in regions of economic or geo-strategic interest to the rich and industrialized world, conflicts in some developing countries, particularly in Africa, I am sorry to say, fail to elicit the same degree of response. Thus, peacekeeping, which is a primary function of this Organization, has also fallen prey to geo-strategic parochial considerations. We hasten to warn that such double standards threaten the concept of collective security which constitutes the very foundation of this Organization. In the West African subregion, we have endeavoured to fill the gap left by international inertia and selectivity. After nearly eight years of fratricidal civil war and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Monitoring Group (ECOMOG) intervention in Liberia, countries of the subregion, with only the limited assistance of the international community, finally succeeded in supervising the conduct of presidential and legislative elections in the country in July 1997, under conditions generally acknowledged to be free and fair. We are happy to welcome the worthy representatives of the elected Government of Liberia to this Assembly. For true and lasting peace in that country, we urge the international community to stand by the people of Liberia as they set out on the difficult road of national reconstruction. We are proud to have been part of the process to restore peace and legitimacy in Liberia, and pray that the Liberian Government and people will continue on the path of national reconciliation in order to consolidate the hard-won peace, which is vital for social and economic development. While we applaud the return of peace to Liberia, we deplore the onset of violence, disorder and destruction following the unjustified overthrow of the democratically elected Government of President Tejan Kabbah in Sierra Leone. We call on the leaders of the coup to heed the unequivocal condemnation of their act by the international community and cooperate with the efforts of ECOWAS to restore constitutional order in Sierra Leone. In recent years, my delegation has had cause to express its concern and regret at the continued imposition of unjust sanctions on Libya by the Security Council, in defiance of the expressed wish of the vast majority of States represented in the League of Arab States, the Organization of African Unity and the Non-Aligned Movement. We note that Libya has fully met the requirements of Security Council resolution 731 (1992) and is willing to cooperate with the other parties concerned in the dispute. We urge the Security Council to revisit the issue and ensure a peaceful solution of the conflict and an end to the sanctions. We also reiterate the call of the Non-Aligned Movement and other States on the United States of America to put an end to the economic, commercial and financial measures and actions unilaterally imposed on Cuba, in contravention of the United Nations Charter and all principles of international law. We urge the people of Korea to work together in peace to realize their aspirations. Since the end of the cold war peace on the peninsula has needlessly been under threat on a number of occasions. On the question of Western Sahara, we maintain our confidence in the power of direct dialogue, under the auspices of this Organization, as the best means by which the Settlement Plan can be revived to enable the Sahrawi people to exercise their right to self-determination, through a free, fair and impartial referendum. The news that the Secretary-General’s personal envoy, in the worthy person of His Excellency Mr. James Baker III, has succeeded in brokering a compromise agreement through such direct talks is reassuring, and we hope that very soon, this long, drawn-out conflict will be amenable to successful resolution. May I also avail myself of this opportunity to express my Government’s regret that the Middle East peace process has been put in grave jeopardy by the actions of the Israeli Government, which, defying international outcry, continues its settlement activities in East Jerusalem. For these are the very actions which encourage extremists among the Palestinians to organize terrorist acts against the Israeli population. We would also urge the Palestinian leadership to continue more assiduously in its efforts to achieve the objectives of their treaty with Israel through non-confrontational means. Many a representative has drawn attention to the continued and widespread growth of the global economy 18 as we move towards the close of the century and to the broadening of the reach of economic growth in developing countries to include an increasing number of low-income countries. Indeed, many African countries have achieved stronger growth of output and incomes in 1996 and 1997. This encouraging trend has been achieved through the adoption and pursuit by Governments of policies and measures aimed at ensuring, among others, macroeconomic stability, inflows of foreign direct investment, open and free markets and stable and transparent legal and regulatory frameworks. However, it is pertinent also to point out that despite these efforts, many African countries, and especially the least developed countries, continue to face important policy challenges, particularly in the areas of enhancing resource mobilization and allocation, strengthening savings and investment and financing development. The difficulties inherent in these challenges are compounded by the adverse impact of globalization and liberalization. These countries have not participated in, nor benefited from, globalization. On the contrary, they have become even more marginalized in the global economy for the very simple reason that they lack the physical, financial and human resources as well as the institutional infrastructure necessary for effective competition and integration in the international markets. In specific terms our countries, despite various structural reforms, have been unable to attract in sufficient quantities the necessary capital inflows for investment, and are confronted at the same time with domestic supply-side constraints which limit our export potential, an unsustainable debt which swallows a great part of our national income, and declining levels of official development assistance, among others. The “prosperity- poverty” gap, or gulf, between the haves and the have-nots is ever more yawning. Under these circumstances, what we need is a new development strategy based on genuine partnership between the developed and developing countries and which takes a holistic view of development, combining within itself all the tools of development, including trade and investment as well as official development assistance and South/South cooperation. Such a strategy will also necessitate the democratization of international relations, particularly in the economic sphere; the establishment of open, equitable and transparent international regimes; the creation of fair opportunities for all; and the protection of the weakest members of our community. It is in this context that we welcome the successful conclusion and adoption of the Agenda for Development, which is intended to serve as an initial framework for renewing and strengthening the partnership for development on the basis of mutual benefits and genuine interdependence. While acknowledging and affirming our commitment to the primacy of national policies and measures to achieve our development goals, we wish to stress the importance of the fulfilment by all parties of the global commitments aimed at supplementing national efforts. In this connection, we express the hope that the commitments and internationally agreed targets reached at recent major United Nations conferences will be fully implemented by all parties. It is also our view that the United Nations must be strengthened and adequately equipped to carry out its important role in development. In seeking to achieve our goals, we the countries of the developing world need to cooperate more among ourselves as a means of strengthening our self-reliance and complementing international development cooperation. We therefore need to strive to enhance cooperation at all levels — bilateral, subregional, regional and interregional — in the important areas of trade, investment, finance, science and technology, environment, human resources development, and information and communications. This, in the view of my delegation, will constitute an important strategy for facilitating the effective participation of developing countries in the global economy. The review and appraisal of the implementation of Agenda 21 last June revealed worsening trends for sustainable development, as well as the continued deterioration of the state of the global environment as a result of the failure of the international community to fulfil the commitments it undertook in 1992. This is a sad state of affairs. But even sadder still was the failure of the review session to make any significant progress on the critical issues of Agenda 21, owing to the unwillingness of Member States to establish time-bound and quantified commitments. It is absolutely necessary that we all recommit ourselves to the global partnership established at Rio in 1992 and to the fulfilment of the obligations voluntarily assumed under Agenda 21. Ghana has in various forums indicated its support for the establishment of an international criminal court. We are gratified that the Preparatory Committee for the establishment of the Court made significant progress in that direction at its last two sessions. We hope that with the same determination and spirit of compromise which 19 has characterized the work of the Preparatory Committee since its inception, the establishment of the Court will soon become a reality. We wish to recognize the useful contributions of the various non-governmental organizations which have worked closely with governmental delegations on several difficult aspects of the proposed international criminal court. Progress on the Law of the Sea also deserves mention. With the establishment of the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf, all institutions envisaged by the Convention have now been put in place. It is our hope that adequate resources will be made available to these institutions to enable them fully to attain the objectives for which they were set up. It is also our hope that cooperation between the appropriate United Nations agencies and developing countries in the sphere of the Law of the Sea will be intensified to enable developing countries fully to utilize the benefits conferred on them by the Convention on the Law of the Sea. The critical financial situation of the Organization is a major source of concern to my delegation, as it places our Organization in jeopardy at a time of challenge and of opportunity to promote the objectives and purposes of the Organization. It is regrettable that a number of countries, including some of the largest contributors, are neither paying their contributions nor making good on their arrears, while some even wittingly aggravate the situation by attaching unacceptable conditions or benchmarks to the discharge of their Charter obligations in this regard. My delegation strongly believes that support for the United Nations must be demonstrated not only by an eagerness to promote reforms but more importantly by the willingness of Member States to pay all their assessed contributions promptly, fully and unconditionally to ensure that the Organization is financially sound and can meet its mandates and other commitments. Ted Turner, an individual with no obligation whatsoever to support the United Nations, has demonstrated support in a dramatic and yet effective manner. He has offered to pay the United Nations $1 billion over 10 years. What excuse has any country got, then, to say, “We will not pay”, or “We will pay only if ...”? On behalf of His Excellency the President of Ghana and of the people of Ghana, I say thank you to Ted Turner for showing us the way, for pricking our consciences and for being such a good citizen of the world. Today at the fifty-second session, perhaps more so than ever before, the General Assembly is confronted with the complex problem of the reform of our Organization. On the threshold of a new millennium, the United Nations cannot continue to conduct its business as usual. It has to adopt bold and imaginative measures to overhaul its structure and working methods with a view to removing the obstacles that impede its effectiveness not only as an instrument for promoting international peace and security but also as an indispensable agent for resolving the world’s socio-economic problems. It is in this context that Ghana has carefully studied the Secretary-General’s wide-ranging and far-reaching proposals presented to Member States for their consideration and reaction. We warmly congratulate the Secretary-General on his bold initiative. The Secretary- General has thrown a momentous challenge to all of us, and we should do everything possible to measure up to the test by manifesting the necessary breadth of vision and objectivity of outlook. The United Nations remains the only international body available to us in our search for peace, progress and prosperity as well as in the resolution of differences among nations. For us as a nation, we are particularly interested in the new sense of purpose and dynamism that the proposals seek to inject into United Nations development activities to make them more coherent and output- oriented. We support the setting up of an effective machinery to study the various proposals and how to implement them, and we stand ready to participate in any such effort.   ﻿I bring with me from the Kingdom of Swaziland the warm greetings and best wishes of Her Majesty the Indlovukazi, the Government and the whole Swazi nation, to our friends and fellow Member States here at the United Nations. On behalf of the Kingdom of Swaziland, may I congratulate you most sincerely, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session. We are confident that the wisdom, experience and diplomatic skills that you bring to the office will ensure success in the many issues facing this session. Swaziland would also like to commend the work of your predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail, who presided with such skill over the deliberations of the fifty- first session. The Kingdom of Swaziland would like to place on record its deep appreciation for the work of Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali during his tenure as our Secretary-General. Much was achieved during the five years of Mr. Boutros- Ghali’s leadership, and the whole world owes him a huge debt of gratitude. We would like further to welcome our new Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, who has shown in his first year that he has the vision and qualities effectively to lead our Organization into the twenty-first century. All of us in Africa are proud of what he has achieved in such a short time. One of the main challenges facing our Secretary- General is the reform of the United Nations into a cost- effective, accountable, credible, well-managed and fully representative Organization. Swaziland gave its full support to the initial Track 1 proposals put forward by the Secretary-General. In particular, we supported the various initiatives designed to reduce administrative costs in favour of increased efficiency in the development programmes in the field. We trust that the welfare of those affected by the necessary cuts has been carefully considered. We have also welcomed the Track 2 reforms, announced in July, and again, we support the Secretary- General’s proposals on economic and social reform, development cooperation, humanitarian relief and human rights. We believe that the Secretary-General’s address at the first meeting of the general debate struck exactly the right note of wise optimism. The responsibility now lies with the General Assembly to support the Secretary-General’s bold approach, and the Kingdom of Swaziland urges its fellow Member States to back the proposals and allow the reforms to forge ahead. One area of reform that will have a major impact on the openness and accountability of the United Nations decision-making process is the question of the membership and expansion of the Security Council, in particular the need for greater representation of the developing world among the permanent members. The Kingdom of Swaziland fully supports the updated African Common Position, which calls for, among other things, membership in the Security Council to be based on an equal geographical formula, on a regional or continental basis. This would make the Council more democratic and ensure that all Members would feel fairly and equally represented in our Organization’s most influential body. Africa believes that the continent should have at least two permanent seats, with full voting and veto rights, to represent the views and concerns of the other 51 countries. These two permanent seats would be appointed through the mechanism designed by the Organization of African Unity (OAU), following the established traditional practice in force. At the heart of the debate on overall United Nations reform is the question of finances. Most of the reforms initiated by the Secretary-General are aimed at making the Organization more cost-efficient and accountable and at allowing more of our finances to be available for the programmes in the field. This is a timely and necessary initiative and is deserving of the strongest support of all Member States. These reforms also justify the recommitment of all Member States to keep up to date with their dues. The Kingdom of Swaziland has consistently tried to maintain a good record in fulfilling its financial obligations to the United Nations. We pledge to do our best to continue to keep up to date, and we would urge all our fellow Member States to show similar confidence in, and support for, our Organization. The Kingdom of Swaziland would also like to add its voice to the appreciation expressed to Mr. Ted Turner for his extraordinary display of confidence in our Organization. His act of generosity, from the private sector, reflects a new spirit of optimism in the United Nations, and we would call on others with the resources to do so to follow Mr. Turner’s example. Hopes for future global stability have been raised by the various initiatives for reducing the numbers and spread of nuclear weapons and warheads. The Kingdom of Swaziland in particular commends the commitment of the United States of America and of Russia to the Strategic Arms Reduction Talks (START) programmes, whose implementation will contribute significantly to a more peaceful world for future generations. We are also encouraged by the global support for the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and for the Chemical Weapons Convention, both of which have been signed by the Kingdom of Eswatini. All these initiatives are important indications of the real commitment of almost all countries to promote international peace and security. We fully support the Secretary-General’s proposal to create a new Department on Disarmament and Arms Regulation as a necessary addition to the Organization. The Kingdom of Swaziland continues to support all moves to bring about a total ban on the production, use and sale of all types of landmines. We participated at the recent Oslo negotiations on anti-personnel landmines and welcomed the signing of the treaty. We regret, however, that not all countries could be parties to the treaty, while understanding the reasons behind their decisions. We sincerely hope that a way can be found soon to achieve universal agreement on this crucial humanitarian issue. As a consequence of situations of instability on our borders, we have experienced first hand the terror of landmines, and we have great sympathy for all who have undergone the suffering associated with them. We also watched with great admiration the efforts of the late Diana, Princess of Wales, to bring to the world an 2 awareness of the horrors of these indiscriminate tools of war. We therefore call on all Member States to support the initiatives aimed at ending for ever the threat of all types of landmines. The Kingdom of Swaziland views with great concern the situation in the Middle East and in particular the strained relations between the Israeli and Palestinian people. The climate of reconciliation and hope inspired by the Oslo peace accord has given way to suspicion and dread. It is clear that the international community must continue to support the peace initiative as the only way forward and make every effort to bring the two sides back to the negotiating table on a basis of mutual trust and confidence. The Kingdom of Swaziland supports the efforts of all who are trying to achieve a breakthrough in this area. We call on the Israeli Government and the Palestinian Authority, for the sake of their own people, to find a way out of this apparent deadlock and return to the spirit of compromise which prevailed during the Oslo negotiations, and which held out the promise of lasting peace. The Kingdom of Swaziland has been encouraged by the recent developments in Northern Ireland, with all-party talks on the future of that troubled province at last under way. We commend the determination of the British and Irish Governments to involve all stakeholders in the negotiations, and we call on all involved to make every effort to ensure that these negotiations lead to lasting peace and stability. The continent of Africa continues to experience situations of instability and conflict which have unfortunate effects on all of us who call it our home. In the past 12 months we have seen crises in Sierra Leone, the Congo and the Comoros islands, and the continuation of problems in many areas and countries such as the Great Lakes region, the horn of Africa and Angola.The Kingdom of Swaziland prays for the many millions caught up in the violence of these and other situations of instability on our beloved continent, and continues to support efforts to find peaceful solutions. At the same time, we welcome a number of encouraging events on the continent, in countries such as Liberia, where United Nations efforts towards peace over the years contributed significantly to the elections earlier this year.We applaud the peaceful nature of that process, and we hope and pray that lasting, sustainable peace has at last come to the Liberian people after so many years of conflict. And we commend the appointment by the Secretary- General of Personal Envoy Mr. James Baker to oversee the situation in Western Sahara. We are most encouraged by developments in this long-running dispute, and we look forward to a lasting resolution in the near future. In the light of continuing instability on much of our continent, one practical measure undertaken by the whole African community has been the recent initiatives by the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and subregional organizations, such as the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and our own Southern African Development Community (SADC), to become better prepared to cope with our continent’s crises using the resources available to maintain peace in our region. One element of this has been the training and preparation of African peacekeeping forces for deployment throughout the continent. The Kingdom of Swaziland has pledged its commitment to provide troops for such forces, once adequate training and preparation have been completed. We should like to record our appreciation to the United States of America for its African Crisis Response Initiative, which is focusing a number of African countries, including the Kingdom of Swaziland, on the requirement for such things as standardized procedures, training and equipment. It is clearly essential for this type of peace force initiative to have the support of the international community and for the OAU to maintain close cooperation with the United Nations in our joint attempts to provide adequate policing of crisis situations in Africa. For almost 30 years the Kingdom of Swaziland has enjoyed excellent relations with a nation which, despite an outstanding record in international development assistance, and while fulfilling all the requirements for membership of our Organization, is nonetheless excluded from participating in the activities of the United Nations. I am referring to the issue of the Government of the Republic of China on Taiwan. In October 1971 the United Nations adopted a resolution which withdrew membership from the Republic of China. That resolution has the effect today of denying the rights of almost 22 million people to be represented here in the United Nations, and to contribute to all the global initiatives undertaken by our Organization. The Kingdom of Swaziland has been in a position to recognize and experience at first hand the peace-loving nature of the Republic of China on Taiwan and its 3 willingness to help foster peace and prosperity throughout the world. The Government and people of the Republic of China have made enormous advances in economic, social and political terms, and have shown themselves ready and able to share their experience and advice with all the nations of the world. Many countries and political groupings over the years have also recognized the need to involve the Republic of China on Taiwan in global development activities, through the offices of the United Nations and its agencies. There is also a growing voice of international opinion, including in the European Parliament, the American Congress and among many countries on all five continents, that membership of the United Nations is necessary for the huge resources and wealth of expertise of the Republic of China to be put to the best possible use for the benefit of all mankind. One of the founding and guiding principles of our Organization has been that of universality, of granting all peoples of the world the right to belong to the United Nations and to be heard in our chambers. It is a reality that almost 22 million people believe that that right is denied to them, by virtue of their country's exclusion from the activities of the one truly global development Organization. The Kingdom of Swaziland therefore proposes to its fellow Member States that the time has now come to review the resolution of 26 years ago. We believe that there is an urgent need to re-examine this issue, taking into account the profound changes in the situation that have occurred since 1971. The Kingdom of Swaziland has viewed with concern the recent report of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, which highlighted once more the economic plight of the developing world. Globalization and liberalization are economic principles with which we all agree, but not at the expense of a greater concentration of wealth in the developed countries and an increase in poverty amongst the underdeveloped. It is all very well to quote the long-term benefits of trade liberalization, but we must understand the severe short-term penalties for those countries which are least prepared to meet them. The Kingdom of Swaziland understands very well what is required of us in a world of free trade, in terms of becoming a producer of finished goods and services in a manner which will allow us to compete effectively and on an equal basis with the rest of the world. But for us to achieve the growth and standards of technology and production required, we and the rest of the developing world need the understanding and support of the developed countries in what will be very difficult economic times ahead. To meet this economic challenge, the Kingdom of Swaziland is continuing its efforts to develop in a sustainable manner, and to create an environment in which our people can prosper. We have been following up recent national initiatives designed to address our short- and long-term social and political challenges and to enhance the right conditions to allow our private sector to continue to be the engine for growth. We have just completed our latest national development strategy, which will set out Government priorities for the next 25 years. Our own internal restructuring programme is continuing, and Government has begun a series of short-term measures to improve the economy. The Kingdom of Swaziland is a developing nation which is largely dependent on agriculture for its survival. In common with other Member States in our position, we continually find ourselves at the mercy of Mother Nature, and in particular we are dependent on adequate rainfall. Our economy is only just recovering from the devastating drought of 1991 and 1992, and now we have learned with great dismay that the dreaded El Niño is once more present in the Pacific Ocean. If true, this will have the gravest consequences for all of us in southern Africa. The Kingdom of Swaziland has learned the lessons of the last drought, and we have begun a programme of dam construction throughout the rural areas. But the threat of a renewed period of reduced rainfall has come much too soon, and we hope for the support once more of our Organization and our fellow Member States. In addition to addressing its economic concerns, the Kingdom of Eswatini has also begun a review of the nation's Constitution. In response to the call by the Swazi people for a fundamental and far-reaching review of our existing Constitution, a Commission has been established and is in the process of conducting a constitutional education programme, reaching even to the most remote areas of the country. This will be followed by a period of submissions from everyone in the Kingdom, after which a constitution, in accordance with the wishes of the whole nation, will be drawn up for national approval. It will truly be the people's constitution, since the process allows the free participation of all Swazis. National participation in important matters such as these 4 is a crucial guiding principle of the Swazi people and, over the years, has ensured the peace and stability we have always enjoyed. We have welcomed the encouragement and support for our constitutional review process from the international community, including the United Nations Development Programme office based in the Kingdom. We are confident that, with the involvement of all Swazis, we will produce a document reflecting the wishes of the whole nation, one that will serve us well for generations to come. There is much vital work to be done in this fifty- second session of the General Assembly. The Kingdom of Eswatini believes that our Organization is at a major crossroads in terms of its own development. We have the opportunity now to carry out the correct reforms and ensure that our Organization is equipped to face the many global challenges that lie ahead in a more efficient, accountable and open manner. We must choose our steps carefully and wisely. Those for whom we are responsible — our people — look to the United Nations to provide the global development leadership that we so desperately need. We cannot afford to fail them. On behalf of Her Majesty the Indlovukazi, the Government and the whole Swazi nation, it is my proud duty to reaffirm the commitment of the Kingdom of Swaziland to the Charter and principles of the United Nations. May God watch over the Assembly's deliberations here in the coming months and guide it in its decisions.   ﻿Allow me to begin by congratulating His Excellency Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko on his unanimous election as President of the fifty-second session of the General Assembly. His outstanding diplomatic skills and long experience in foreign affairs assure us that he will lead our deliberations at the present session to a successful conclusion. May I also pay our tribute to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Razali Ismail of Malaysia for his sagacious and exemplary stewardship of the Assembly at its fifty-first session. I also wish to extend our warm congratulations to the new Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan, on his assumption of his high office. The new Secretary-General has already proved his dynamism and dedication in the discharge of his responsibilities — not the least by providing us with his comprehensive United Nations reform programme for our consideration at this session of the General Assembly. This is a time for change and renewal for the United Nations. The reform package, proposed by Mr. Kofi Annan, Secretary-General of the United Nations in his report, “Renewing the United Nations: A Programme for Reform”, is the most comprehensive proposal on the reform of the United Nations in the 52-year history of the Organization. Specific proposals, contained therein, need to be most carefully studied, and considered by all of us. Another question of reform which is the subject of intensive consultations and discussions among Member States at present is that of the composition and working methods of the Security Council. Both the reform of the United Nations and that of the Security Council are imperatives of our times. These institutions and their working methods need to be changed and adjusted appropriately to reflect the present-day realities. With regard to the reform of the United Nations in general, we believe that there is a need for a thorough review of the United Nations Charter. Many profound changes have taken place in the world since the Charter was framed 52 years ago. We are of the view that the role of the General Assembly should be enhanced in line with Articles 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of the Charter. The practice whereby a few great Powers hijack important political issues for settlement among themselves in the Security Council, bypassing the Assembly is not basically consistent with the spirit and principles of the Charter. Nor is it in the interest of the entire membership of the United Nations and the interest of the Organization. The General Assembly should be more actively involved in the settlement of important political issues before the United Nations. We wish to see more intimate and dynamic cooperation between the General Assembly and the Security Council. Moreover, the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council should play a greater role in the coordination and direction of global macroeconomic policy matters. With regard to the reform of the Security Council, there is an emerging convergence of views among Member States that the membership of the Council should be expanded to reflect the present-day realities, although differences of opinion still exist on the modalities of enlarging the Council. Myanmar endorses the position of the non-aligned countries that the Council should be 11 enlarged by not less than 11 new members and that such an enlargement should be based on the principles of sovereign equality of States, equitable geographical distribution and rotation. Imbalance in the composition of the Security Council and gross under-representation in it of the non- aligned countries should be corrected in order to reflect the universal character of the world Organization. In the category of permanent members, there are a few interesting proposals, including that of Mr. Razali Ismail, President of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly, recommending an increase of five new permanent members, two industrialized States and one State each from regions of Asia, Africa and Latin America and the Caribbean, respectively. There are also proposals to rotate the three new regional permanent seats. These proposals deserve our serious consideration. We believe that there is also a need for democratization and greater transparency in the working methods of the Council. May I now touch briefly on the reform package, proposed by the Secretary-General. We welcome the main thrust of his proposals for cost-cutting and streamlining of the United Nations institutions and services. The important thing is that the reform of the United Nations should truly benefit the entire membership, of which the majority are developing countries. Our vision is a leaner and more efficient United Nations that can more effectively respond to the challenges of our time and better serve the interests of the entire membership of the Organization. In this respect, we need to examine most carefully whether the new senior executive posts it is proposed to create are really necessary and whether emphasis and focus on institutional reforms are rightly placed. These proposed reforms, if and when approved by the General Assembly and implemented, will have far-reaching effects on the Organization and will go a long way in determining how well the United Nations will be equipped to meet new challenges in the twenty-first century. Accordingly, we should not rush into reform measures for their own sake, showing undue haste. We should undertake a most careful examination and a thorough discussion of these proposals before taking firm decisions in this regard. Myanmar is an ardent advocate of stepping up international disarmament efforts with a view to making further advances in this important area of our collective endeavour. We welcome the proposal by the Secretary- General in his reform package to upgrade the Centre for Disarmament Affairs to the Department for Disarmament and Arms Regulation. Today, the post-cold-war international political climate is conducive to arms limitations and disarmament. Last year, the General Assembly successfully adopted the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT). We are encouraged to learn that the Preparatory Commission for the Organization of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty is making good progress. However, it was disconcerting to learn of the recent subcritical non- explosive nuclear tests carried out by a nuclear-weapon State. Such subcritical tests run counter to the spirit of the CTBT and to the cause of nuclear disarmament. We wish to see the cessation of all weapon-related nuclear tests — be they explosive or non-explosive, subcritical or supracritical — in all environments for all time. In the field of arms limitations and disarmament, we attach the highest importance to nuclear disarmament and elimination of weapons of mass destruction. At the historic golden jubilee session of the United Nations General Assembly, Myanmar submitted, with the overwhelming support of Member States, the draft resolution that became resolution 50/70 P, entitled “Nuclear disarmament”, calling upon the nuclear-weapon States to undertake a phased programme of progressive and balanced deep reductions of nuclear weapons with a view to the total elimination of these weapons within a time-bound framework and calling upon the Conference on Disarmament to establish, on a priority basis, an ad hoc committee to commence multilateral negotiations on nuclear disarmament. Since the adoption of resolution 50/70 P by the General Assembly in 1995, there has been a ground swell of renewed interest in and support for nuclear disarmament worldwide. In their advisory opinion of 8 July 1996, all Judges of the International Court of Justice unanimously reaffirmed the existence of a legal obligation for all States, including nuclear-weapon States, to pursue in good faith and bring to a conclusion negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament in all its aspects under strict and effective international control. There has also been a clamour for nuclear disarmament by several groups of experts, groups of ex-military officials from some nuclear-weapon States and public organizations in various countries around the world. At the fifty-first session of the General Assembly, my delegation once again successfully submitted a follow- up resolution — resolution 51/45 O — on the same subject. My delegation will submit another follow-up draft resolution on nuclear disarmament at this year’s session as well. We hope that, in view of its immense political 12 importance, our draft resolution will enjoy the overwhelming support of Member States, as in previous years. The recent Conference held in Oslo from 1 to 19 September negotiated a draft convention to place a total ban on anti-personnel landmines. We are supportive of banning the export and indiscriminate use of anti-personnel landmines. We believe, however, that every country is entitled to exercise the right of self-defence, enshrined in Article 51 of the United Nations Charter, in matters of its national defence. In our view, the real problem lies in the indiscriminate use of anti-personnel landmines and the export and trade in these weapons. It is the indiscriminate use of anti-personnel landmines that is actually killing and maiming innocent children, women and men the world over, and it is the export and trade in these mines that is causing their proliferation, leading to their indiscriminate use. We should effectively address these real issues, rather than reach out for an indiscriminate and all-encompassing total ban on anti-personnel landmines. Next year, 1998, will mark the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Significant and substantial advances have been achieved by the United Nations in the promotion and protection of human rights in the past 50 years. Nowadays, increasing importance and emphasis have been placed on the promotion and protection of human rights. We are all for the promotion and protection of basic human rights, including the right to development. There is no question about that. But when it comes to the application of human rights standards, we are concerned by the deviation by certain Western countries from the criteria of universality, objectivity and non-selectivity enshrined in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights. The politicization of human rights questions and the selectivity and use of double standards run counter to the spirit and basic norms of human rights. Myanmar has been unfairly treated in this matter and has been singled out for censure by certain Western countries under the guise of the promotion and protection of human rights. The fact is that never in our post- independence history have we in Myanmar enjoyed such economic growth; never have the Myanmar people better enjoyed the basic human rights to peace and stability, shelter, clothing and food than at present. Those Western countries turn a blind eye to all these positive developments and accomplishments of the Government in my country and indulge in the ritual of unfounded fabricated charges against my country. To cite a Myanmar saying, their ignorance of the realities and misjudgment may be likened to that of a quack doctor who ignores the fact that the patient is a man and gives him a gynaecological diagnosis. A man must not be accused or censured for the offences he has not committed. For our part, we have cooperated with the United Nations to the fullest extent possible. Myanmar has been engaged in a continuing dialogue with the United Nations. From 1994 onwards, I myself, as a representative of the Myanmar Government, have held discussions with the Secretary-General and his representatives at United Nations Headquarters in New York. Assistant Secretary- General Mr. Alvaro de Soto, representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, has visited Myanmar several times and has met and held discussions with officials of the Government. There have also been several visits by the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights. Moreover, the Myanmar Government has fully responded to queries on human rights situations and provided the full and comprehensive information sought by the United Nations and its subsidiary bodies. We shall continue this cooperation with the United Nations. The spread of narcotic drugs is a growing international concern. Myanmar has always been in the forefront of the war on illicit drugs. A few facts and figures will speak for themselves. In the military operations from 1988 to the end of August 1997 by the Myanmar Armed forces to interdict drug traffickers, 776 members of the Armed Forces, including 25 commissioned officers, sacrificed their lives; and 2351 members, including 84 commissioned officers, sustained injuries. From 1989 to date, operations to destroy narcotic drugs have been carried out 11 times in Yangon; operations to destroy narcotic drugs, drug refineries and poppy plantations have been carried out 18 times by the local populace in frontier areas; a total of 36,682.03 acres of poppy plantations have been destroyed. All these operations took place in the presence of foreign journalists and diplomats. Myanmar has a comprehensive legal framework to combat drug abuse, including money laundering. Under the 1993 Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Law, money laundering and the acquisition of property by 13 the illegal means of drug trafficking are strictly prohibited. Stern punitive measures for such criminal offences are prescribed and a separate body — the Property Examination Committee — was constituted effectively to deal with these offences. Myanmar’s cooperation with other countries in mutual legal assistance in the suppression of narcotic drugs is exemplified by the handing-over of the drug trafficker Mr. Li Yun Ching by the Myanmar authorities to the Thai authorities on 17 May 1997 during the goodwill visit of Thai Prime Minister General Chavalit Yongchaiyudh to Myanmar. A most significant accomplishment by Myanmar in recent times in this respect is the declaration of Mong-la Special Zone (4) of the Eastern Shan State as a “drug-free zone” as of 22 April 1997. Special Zone (2) of the Eastern Shan State and Special Zones (1) and (2) in Kachin State have been designated for establishment as “drug-free zones”. Effective measures are being implemented to totally eradicate drug abuse in these areas. We are confident that these areas will be totally drug free in the near future. By establishing an increasing number of such drug-free zones and by other effective measures of suppression of narcotic drugs, we envision and strive to achieve the total eradication of drug abuse in Myanmar in the not-too-distant future. In fairness to all, it would be hard to find other countries that have made sacrifices of such magnitude in terms of loss of life and limb of the members of their armed forces and have carried out such massive destruction of narcotic drugs. No candid observer, free from any prejudice against Myanmar, can deny these concrete facts. But certain Westerners, bearing prejudice and malice against Myanmar, are pointing accusing fingers at my country on all sorts of fabricated charges. Nothing can be further from the truth. So glaring is their distortion of facts that we can only say that the analogy of the quack doctor I have quoted above also applies in this instance. As this is a time for change and renewal for the United Nations, so it is for the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN). In this year of the thirtieth anniversary of the founding of the Association, ASEAN, at its ministerial meeting in Kuala Lumpur in July this year, admitted Laos and Myanmar, bringing its membership to nine. By so doing, ASEAN has demonstrated to the world the solidarity among the South-East Asian countries. We are confident that this will lead to the further expansion of the membership of the Association to 10 in the near future. By this expansion, ASEAN has once again proven its relevance, viability and dynamism as a regional organization. Myanmar is also taking an active part in regional economic cooperation. An important step taken by my country recently is Myanmar’s joining of the Bangladesh- India-Sri Lanka-Thailand Economic Cooperation (BIST- EC) in August this year. Through its pursuit of an independent and active foreign policy, Myanmar has consistently contributed to peace and stability in the region and beyond. As a member of ASEAN and of the Non-Aligned Movement, Myanmar will continue this contribution through its active participation in international and regional affairs in future as well.  ﻿At the outset, I would like to extend to you, Sir, my sincere congratulations on your election to the presidency of this session of the General Assembly. Your election is well-deserved recognition of your great personal qualities and a tribute to Ukraine. We wish you success in the exercise of your duties. 23 My delegation would also like to extend its appreciation to the Permanent Representative of Malaysia to the United Nations, Mr. Razali Ismail, for his excellent work during the previous session of the General Assembly. We also extend our sincere thanks to Mr. Kofi Annan, who in carrying out his mission as the Secretary-General of our Organization has demonstrated a remarkable spirit of hard work and commitment during a particularly difficult time for the United Nations in the maintenance of international peace and in the complex task of restructuring and strengthening of this institution. The most noticeable feature of the world as the end of the century approaches is the generalized spread of democracy. Almost all the nations of the world share this way of life, thereby giving the end of the century a character which has no parallel in past centuries. We are finally living in an era of democracy after a long night of dictatorship and totalitarianism in various parts of the globe. But this universalization of democracy goes hand in hand with something which — for lack of a better name — we might call the malaise of democracy. Dissatisfaction can be heard everywhere; this political system is being called into question in the name of development and prosperity. Democracy with extreme poverty is not the model we seek. Representative government is a political gain of the modern age, but it is only the halfway point on the road to full human development. It must be accompanied by other elements which are essential to a life of dignity: wellbeing, justice, involvement and a full understanding of the human being as both the root and the fruit of all our efforts. If there is one thing which we will have to do in the future, particularly in forums such as the General Assembly, it is to find formulas that can provide for a workable relationship between democracy and development, between prosperity and equity, and between growing wealth and disappearing poverty. The United Nations faces challenges and expectations with regard to this serious matter of the viability of democracy. There is perhaps today no more important task. If freedom, the essence of this political system, is disparaged in the name of growth without values, then the loss of generations sacrificed on the battlefields in this tortured century will lose all meaning. That danger does exist, and those of us who know from our own painful experience the crimes that can be committed in the name of progress have a duty to alert everyone to it. In recent years, five successive Governments have come to power legitimately in Honduras through free elections. This is unprecedented in our history and it allows us to say that we are indeed practising democracy, which is a lesson we never finish learning. Our experience shows once again that free elections, while being the basis of Governments, are not in themselves sufficient to consolidate the system or to guarantee the complete satisfaction of the people. Since 1994 we have been trying to involve our people more in major national decisions and we have been trying to pay more attention to their needs through an open dialogue. This is part of our belief that it is essential to move forward from formal democracy to real democracy, if we want it to be more than a constitutional expression and become part of the living culture of our people. Democratic culture as a way of life requires constant vigilance to bolster its credibility and to legitimize its existence every day. This is why in our part of Central America, Honduras, we have regarded it as essential to back up this form of government with an ongoing reaffirmation of its ethical values and a resolute campaign against all forms of corruption, which is one of the worst and most vexatious enemies of democracy. In late November this year, Honduras will hold another election to change its Government. I am pleased to be able to report to the international community that this process will be free and transparent and that once again the people will decide the Government for the next four-year term. Economic indicators provided by national and international institutions agree that at the end of our mandate there has been a significant improvement in the Honduran economy. We are pleased to be able to hand over to the new authorities a country that is in better shape than it was when we began our term. This could well be the real meaning of democracy: constant improvement in living conditions and moving from one level to another through successive Governments — with the free vote of the people being the final judge of what is to be done. The Honduran way of finding common ground in order to reach agreement on the kind of country we want has been to establish permanent interaction between the governors and the governed. 24 These last four years of government have to a large extent been an ongoing debate with civil society, the healthy results of which confirm, on the one hand, the advantages of participation and, on the other, the capacities of Government. This is what democracy teaches us, its most valuable lesson. Much indeed remains to be done, but we are on the right track. We have established solid juridical bases. We have made tangible progress and are building a dynamic State respectful of the law, dependable in justice and, above all, conscious of the enormous needs of the Honduran people and their inalienable right to be the principal focus of development. The social expenditures of the Honduran State in 1998 will account for over 30 per cent of our national budget. This is a clear message to our people. It is well known that Honduras is part of the great Central American family. We were united in the colonial period and we were united when we attained independence. Separation and fragmentation have simply been a long parenthesis, occasionally interrupted by fleeting attempts at unity. What is important, however, is the will of our countries, repeatedly expressed, to come together again and their demonstrated desire for union, which has always sought new forms of expression and can be wiped out neither by the passage of time nor by setbacks of any kind. From 1994 to today, two major events have marked life in Central America. The Alliance for Sustainable Development (ALIDES) was signed in 1994 and an agreement was reached to initiate the gradual and progressive establishment of the Central American union as the higher expression of the community association laid down in the 1991 Tegucigalpa Protocol, contained in the Nicaragua Declaration of 2 September 1997. The Alliance represents a radical change in the integration agenda of Central America, a new concept of development, making it integral to and indivisible from the benefit of the human individual. Sustainable development, as advocated by ALIDES, is a recognition that growth may be pursued while protecting the future — we can grow today without jeopardizing the development of generations to come. It is also an alliance with nature, a new relationship and a revaluation of our resources. It seeks to avoid the negative consequences of a short-term approach and to look to the lasting prosperity of our peoples. Lastly, it exploits our new competitive advantages: our situation as an isthmus, our long coastlines, our inter-ocean facilities, our magnificent biodiversity and the beauty of the Caribbean region. We are committed to building ALIDES. It is fitting to acknowledge that the originality of our approach has been recognized at the world level and is being endorsed by important entities. The main content of the Nicaragua Declaration that I have just mentioned is the agreement on Central American union. While we have been working on regional integration, the absence of a political lodestar has wrought a lack of coherence at the regional level. We are now resolved, however, to deal with this lodestar and this political dimension in a gradual and progressive approach that does not run roughshod over history. This will bring us together and define us, giving substance to the vision of Central America shared by the rest of the world. Our decision is neither utopian nor romantic, although we are such stuff as dreams are made on, as Shakespeare says. We are not talking here of utopias or romanticism. Our decision is simply an act of maturity, a realistic recognition of the needs created by our internal development and by external demands which, if we are to survive with dignity, will require us to make enormous efforts that, in our case, transcend our capabilities as divided, individual States. We have established a working committee to draft the bases and principles for Central American union. By the end of the year, we should have the relevant documents. The process will culminate in the signing of the formal commitment to political unity. Those who are familiar with Central American history and aware of our current efforts in the various fields of integration know that Central American union is not simply an act of faith; it is, rather, a work of engineering, an enormous undertaking that, taking into account the unique qualities of each of our States, is the key to the exercise of joint sovereignty. The peoples of the United Nations must be informed of this important decision. That is why the five Central American Presidents are here, in this highest world forum, spreading the good news of this political decision. Through the representatives here, we wish the world to learn of this great decision and to accept our aspirations, which are shared by other regions of the world. In this context, my country reiterates its endorsement of the right of the Republic of China to become a Member of the United Nations family. We support the work of that great nation, which is seeking ways to participate fully in this 25 and in other international forums without any form of exclusion or hegemony. I wish now to refer to Honduras’s support for the process of deep-rooted change in the United Nations, both in its various fields of operation as well as in its internal decision-making organs. The world in which the United Nations was created was not what it is today and we must therefore keep up with the times. On the question of the Security Council, we would repeat what was said at the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly and reiterate our belief that a solution to the question of the size of the Council’s membership cannot be rushed. Moreover, my country endorses the statement on the strengthening of the United Nations and Security Council reform adopted at the eleventh Summit of the Rio Group. This stated that the Latin American and Caribbean region must be taken into account in any proposal relating to an increase in the Security Council’s membership. We are pleased at the mine-clearance work that has been carried out with international support. In the case of Honduras, this work is particularly important because of the lives taken and mutilations caused by this inhumane practice that is now receiving universal condemnation, a condemnation that we firmly and decidedly support. Finally, we would like to express once again how pleased we are at the regional and world treatment of the subject of corruption. As the world becomes aware of how this scourge affects the development and peaceful existence of peoples, we will finally make progress towards vanquishing it in the various parts of the world.  ﻿I am particularly honoured to have the opportunity to address the fifty-second session of the General Assembly of the United Nations on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would like, first, to extend my warm congratulations to our respected friend and colleague, His Excellency Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, on his accession to the presidency of the fifty-second session of the General Assembly. Mr. Udovenko’s rich experience and extensive knowledge of United Nations affairs are telling proof that this General Assembly session has outstanding leadership. The destiny of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been closely linked to the United Nations since early 1992, when my country became a Member State. Bosnia and Herzegovina’s struggle to survive as a sovereign state within its internationally recognized borders lasted four years. We believe we won the major battle in preserving the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country, but we know we still have a long way to go. The role of the international community and the involvement of the United Nations in the Bosnia and Herzegovina crisis were overwhelming. Month after month, the United Nations, led by the Security Council, stood firmly behind internationally accepted norms and principles in order to make possible a negotiated and peaceful solution in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately — for subjective and objective reasons, most of which are well known to all of us — in spite of all the resolutions and decisions the tragedy in Bosnia and Herzegovina continued to take what was probably the heaviest toll of any modern conflict. The events also proved that the United Nations was not ready to deal effectively with what was certainly one of the most complex crisis in our times. The conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina was, and still is, an important 22 case study which should be carefully analysed in the context of the United Nations involvement mandate and its role in crisis situations. But we respect the help and tireless efforts of the members of the United Nations mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina to help the civilian population survive. I would like to use this opportunity to say that we remember and greatly admire the members of the international community who lost their lives in the peace mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We were deeply saddened by the recent tragic accident which took the lives of 12 brave peace promoters, among them the Deputy to the High Representative, Ambassador Gerd Wagner. We cannot forget the tens of thousands people who were killed or wounded, the thousands of missing and hundreds of thousands displaced persons and refugees. Heavy damage was inflicted on the economic, social, cultural and other sectors of life in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But ultimately it was the social tissue of Bosnia and Herzegovina that suffered the greatest damage. The striving for national domination, exclusivity and xenophobia, and also autism, have destroyed bridges of communication and have deepened the gap between various ethnic groups. Given that the tragic consequences of the conflict remain, it will require a lot of wisdom, patience and hard work to overcome the many obstacles in our way. But we believe that it is time to turn resolutely towards the future. We must use this precious time to rebuild confidence and establish relations between different ethnic groups and among all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. These relations should be based on internationally accepted standards and norms of behaviour. In that context the promotion and protection of human rights is one of the core issues. Human rights are universally accepted and inherent to all human beings, and they must be respected. Two years after the signatures on the Dayton Agreement stopped the negative current of events and marked the beginning of the peace process, Bosnia and Herzegovina is facing enormous tasks: rebuilding the war- torn country and simultaneously establishing a democratic system of governance and administration. In spite of a variety of problems and shortcomings, we feel that the positive energy necessary for such an endeavour is accumulating. Besides the continuous attention and support of the international community, we need the parties concerned in Bosnia and Herzegovina to show additional political goodwill if they want to see the peace process progress and lead, ultimately, to results. The legal framework for this exceptionally complex goal was established in the Dayton Agreement. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina was drafted, taking into account the political reality and using as the point of departure the only possible formula: three peoples, two entities, one state. To make this rather unique arrangement viable, in accordance with the provisions of the Dayton Agreement, institutions at the state level have been established. The Presidency, Council of Ministers and Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina are functioning but they have not yet reached the necessary optimal rhythm and performance. This represents a serious obstacle and must be overcome without any delay because of its direct influence on the functioning of the entire State system, and on the external relations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as on the key development programmes. At the lower level, the system of cantonal power and administration is taking shape. It encompasses a number of important duties and activities but also responsibilities, since through it equal representation and participation of different ethnic groups in power-sharing should be secured. This represents one of the pillars of the multi- ethnic, democratic State of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But what is most important is full and unconditional compliance with all the provisions of the Dayton Agreement. That must be understood by all those who put their signatures on the peace agreements, and those who do not honour their obligations must face the consequences. I would also like to say that the successful organization of the municipal elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina, held just a week ago, is of great significance. Imperfect as they may be, these elections represent a milestone on our complex and often difficult journey towards stable peace and in the building of the modern, democratic State of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The fact that the elections took place throughout the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with hardly any problems or any major incidents, demonstrates the readiness of all parties in Bosnia and Herzegovina to comply with the provisions of the Dayton Agreement. The very fact that the majority of the population in this war-torn and exhausted country responded in an orderly fashion and presented themselves in large numbers at the voting stations speaks for itself. It is a 23 clear signal that they want to take the destiny of Bosnia and Herzegovina in their own hands. It is also a testimony to their readiness to pursue the noble goal of healing the war wounds and starting to rebuild the bridges of cooperation, tolerance and mutual respect. The post-war experience in Bosnia and Herzegovina underlines the importance of democratic reforms, the introduction of rule of law and the administration of justice in accordance with the highest standards, respect for human rights and the strengthening of public institutions. For a truly democratic society, it is of particular importance to open the space for free activities of civil society, citizens associations, various non-governmental organizations and religious communities. During the elections process, the significance of open, objective and truthful information delivered by free media was confirmed once again. In order to achieve all of this, the presence of the international community is of critical importance. Help and support from the various organizations and agencies within the United Nations system is invaluable to Bosnia and Herzegovina and we are grateful for it. Socio-economic development and the building of a democratic State are closely interrelated. Only with properly targeted help from the outside will Bosnia and Herzegovina be able to create a sustainable economic system and thus achieve a stable environment that is less exposed to crisis and conflict situations. Here we are talking about a close and mutually conditioned relationship between development, democracy and peace. The realization of this paradigm holds the key to the door for Bosnia and Herzegovina to catch up with the fast developing world. Therefore, I am convinced that we all share the opinion that this should continue in order to implement a common long-term vision for a prosperous and stable Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have to move down this road swiftly and urgently. And this applies beyond the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina; we cannot afford to delay stability in the region. In that context, I would like to underline one growing phenomenon of our time which is particularly relevant for Bosnia and Herzegovina: the interaction between the foreign and internal factors in the countries in transition. Only the combined efforts of the two can yield the desired results; yet the international factor must never forget that the case of each country is specific. Instead of a schematic and stereotypical approach, a new, inventive and flexible methodology and pattern of activities should apply. This would certainly contribute to a better focus for programmes and a higher degree of coordination. It would also prevent overlapping and inadequate spending of resources. The purpose of my brief overview was to share with this body the recent experience in consolidating peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am convinced that by the end of this debate we will be enriched with valuable ideas and proposals on how to continue and improve the peace process in Bosnia and Herzegovina. As the Secretary- General stated in his address, the international community must ensure that its collective investments — military, political and financial — have not been made in vain. We in Bosnia and Herzegovina share this approach entirely. As a Member State, Bosnia and Herzegovina is closely following the ongoing process of reform of our Organization. The fifty-second session of the General Assembly is taking place at a time when the main features of the global political scene are rapidly changing. The new political and strategic structures are taking shape, with far-reaching consequences. With the cold war behind us, new prospects, with new fears and new challenges, are looming over the world. In such an environment, we attach the greatest importance to the place and the role of the United Nations. We would like to commend the Secretary-General of the United Nations and his collaborators for the immense efforts in preparing a comprehensive report that contains a programme of action for the reform of the United Nations system. We cannot but agree that it is high time for the United Nations to respond properly to the changing world and thus confirm the irreplaceable role of this universal Organization. We go along with those who insist on a modern, streamlined efficient Organization, ready to respond to the demands of the new times. The United Nations must reach out to the world with new vigour and offer all of its assets in order to prevent threats to international peace and security and also to address the ever-growing number of universal problems. By breaking bureaucratic sediments, the United Nations must became a source of great intellectual power capable of offering a visionary perspective on the future. We would like to state that one of the pressing tasks is the reform of the Security Council. However, we must be prudent in dealing with this question. A balance between more democratic representation in, and full mobility of action for, this important United Nations body has to be found. 24 Before concluding, I would like to touch upon the two questions which are of particular relevance for Bosnia and Herzegovina. The first question relates to that abhorrent and immoral weapon — anti-personnel landmines. Bosnia and Herzegovina is unfortunately one of the largest fields infested with this dangerous killing device. We strongly support the conclusions of the Oslo Conference and hope to see the international community united in supporting a comprehensive ban. The second question has to do with our first-hand experience with the most horrible violation of human rights that took place in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are therefore strongly raising our voice in favour of the perpetrators of genocide and war crimes being brought before justice and prosecuted. We welcome the idea of the establishment of an International Criminal Court, and we are convinced that the experience with the International Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda will be taken into account during the preparation process. In conclusion, I would like to underline our feeling that the exchange of views and experiences during the fifty- second session is of great importance. It will certainly bring new inspiration and, I hope, vision for the overall development of our planet. It will also contribute to our preparations for the encounter with the third millennia, its challenges but also its new chances and possibilities. We must be ready for this historic opportunity.  ﻿At the outset, allow me to take this opportunity to congratulate Minister Udovenko, our colleague from Ukraine, on his election as President of this session of the General Assembly and to express my most sincere thanks to Ambassador Razali of Malaysia for the invaluable work he helped us achieve during the fifty- first session of the Assembly. It is clear that the way in which we organize ourselves as a world community is of the utmost importance for questions of war and peace, poverty and wealth, and justice and injustice in the world. The United Nations Secretariat and the leadership of our Organization have a key role in this regard. All those serving United Nations institutions deserve our gratitude for the way in which they carry out their work, both here in New York and in the field, often in precarious situations in which some have even lost their lives. But we should ask whether we, the Member States, have done enough to find common responses. Have we given the United Nations the necessary tools for comprehensive management? Have we not blamed the Organization for a lack of success in some of its endeavours, when they may have been doomed to failure anyway because there was not enough support from Member States? We must be fully aware that, as Member States, we sometimes try to impose tasks upon the Organization which are beyond its capabilities, while we are all too often slow to provide help and support whenever and wherever it is really needed. More than once we have seen — in Africa, for example — that the United Nations has had to spread itself too thinly over vast distances and that adequate support for a United Nations role has not been forthcoming from Member States, which has weakened the United Nations ability to react when a dynamic response was needed in crisis situations. Has not the time come, during this session, to ensure that the Organization can act with renewed vigour and reconfirm its authority? I am convinced that the answer to this question should be positive, and that we should, like the President of the European Union and other previous speakers, throw our full weight behind the Secretary-General's proposals to prepare the Organization more effectively for the coming millennium. More efficiency and coordination, greater cohesion and better cooperation between Headquarters and agencies in the field are minimal changes, but fully justified. However, we need to do more because this year we must resolve the United Nations financial crisis. It is unacceptable that Member States should not pay their dues in full and that they attach conditions to the payment of what they owe. All the speakers in the general debate should be able to proclaim from this rostrum not just that they want to improve the Organization's efficiency and that they support the Secretary-General in his efforts to that end, but also that their contributions have been paid in full, unconditionally, thus proving their commitment to the goals of the United Nations and our common agenda. There can be no doubt that this agenda includes the achievements of the 12 United Nations conferences which, from the 1990 World Summit for Children to the 1996 World Food Summit, have paved the way for the current agenda in the area of international development. But responsibilities have often been distributed injudiciously and too widely, while mandates have proved insufficient. A more integrated approach in the social and economic sector has in any case become necessary. I therefore welcome the fact that the Secretary-General’s proposals for reform pay particular 29 attention to development, and I subscribe fully to his proposals. Furthermore, a well-balanced expansion of the Security Council should be achieved without delay. Belgium, together with a number of like-minded countries that share the general concern with regard to strengthening the authority of the Security Council, has clearly stated its views here in New York. We advocate an increase in both permanent and non-permanent members, greater regional representativeness, enhanced Council efficiency and a limitation of the right of veto. The right of veto is incompatible with the general interest. It should be possible to modify the decision-making mechanism so as to avoid recourse to this instrument, which has become entirely obsolete. Belgium also pleads for more transparency and closer cooperation between the Security Council and countries contributing to peacekeeping operations. Such organizational and financial reform can succeed only if it can rely upon a team of officials who see themselves as being at the service of the Organization and of the common good. Ultimately, an Organization reformed along these lines and better able to meet global challenges will have to strengthen its ties with and complement regional organizations, not only in the political field but also at the social and economic level. It will not be possible to make our world more humane without the joint effort of all international organizations in support of a global approach. In this effort, the United Nations, together with regional and specialized institutions, is a beacon of hope for millions of people. Strengthening the United Nations also means strengthening its ties with other organizations and associations so that they can keep pace with the overall reshaping of our Organization and of our world vision. I should like to provide two examples. With regard to its policy on Africa, Belgium again stresses the need for an objective approach on the one hand and accountability on the other. The approach that we wish to promote is based on universal principles, the most important of which is that of human rights sustained by mutual respect based on equality. It is high time that we progressed to true mental decolonization. Efforts originating in the region itself should be given every chance to prosper and should be fully recognized by the international community. As for Central Africa in particular, our common efforts should give priority to the reconstruction and democratization of the Congo, in the interests not only of that country and its people, but of stability in the Great Lakes region as a whole. On the other hand, in certain areas, such as Eastern Slavonia, United Nations “blue helmets” have succeeded in separating warring parties, protecting populations and preparing for reconstruction. It is therefore the responsibility first of the parties themselves and then of the international community to make every effort to prevent these achievements from slipping away. By extension, this is also true for the region as a whole. With regard to Eastern Slavonia in particular, it is important for the activities of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe to be based on the accomplishments of the United Nations Transitional Administration for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Sirmium (UNTAES) and for such activities to be inspired by and based upon United Nations experience in the region. I should now like to focus on another contemporary issue: disarmament. Needless to say, weapons of mass destruction should be forbidden. But this is also true for weapons whose sole purpose is to destroy human beings, such as anti-personnel landmines. In Angola, Bosnia, Afghanistan, Cambodia and elsewhere, these indiscriminate and cowardly weapons kill some 9,600 people and maim another 14,000 every year. They kill and mutilate more people than all the weapons of mass destruction put together. It is high time that these devices were banned. In less than two years the objective of a total ban on anti-personnel landmines has met with a positive response in most parts of the world. Belgium, which was keen to play a leading role in this field, fully supports this objective. As chairman of the international conference on a total ban on anti-personnel landmines, which took place in Brussels in June, I myself noted the existence of the political will necessary to achieve a ban by the end of 1997. The recent conclusion in Oslo of the negotiations on a legally binding instrument means that most of us will be able to go to Ottawa in early December to sign this important treaty. My country made a great effort to ensure that we produced a strong legal instrument, with no exceptions or reservations, and we also advocated that assistance to landmine victims should be an essential part of this convention. Belgium is pleased to note that this international humanitarian standard will soon become a reality and invites all other States to 30 join in the effort. It is also my firm hope that States will not wait for the treaty to come into force before they honour this total ban. Humanitarian tragedies will continue to occur throughout the world. Whatever their origins, crises are become increasingly complicated. Still considerable in number, they create countless victims and immense human suffering. Despite greater solidarity and increased humanitarian assistance granted by a growing number of humanitarian and non-governmental organizations, difficulties on the ground have continued to grow in recent years. Above all, in addition to the problem of access to victims, the lack of security and total disregard for international humanitarian law and human rights require our particular attention. Indeed, I am especially worried about the recent increase in aggression against humanitarian personnel. These acts are often carried out with the sole purpose of blocking their access to populations who are suffering. It goes without saying that the authorities hosting the humanitarian workers bear primary responsibility for their safety. These authorities must also ensure respect for humanitarian law, based on values for which a consensus exists within the international community but whose concrete application on the ground remains a daily challenge. This is another task for the United Nations. Existing legal instruments must be strengthened and expanded in order to extend the same maximum protection to humanitarian personnel in the field as is currently provided for military personnel in peacekeeping missions. In addition, the directives on humanitarian law such as those proposed by the International Committee of the Red Cross should also be revitalized and thoroughly examined. Our Organization is increasingly confronted with crises that require global responses comprising not only their humanitarian dimensions, but also their military, economic, political and social dimensions. In these circumstances, humanitarian organizations must not only continue to ensure a thorough coordination of the assistance delivered, but also develop stepped-up convergence between, for instance, United Nations Blue Helmets involved in peacekeeping missions and humanitarian workers. Greater interaction and cooperation between them is imperative if we wish to devise an integrated and suitable response to the ever more complex crisis situations facing the international community. I believe that much remains to be done in order to improve and develop such cooperation: for example, joint planning for crisis situations, training, defining roles and mandates and, finally, implementation and follow-up of operations. We must bear in mind that humanitarian assistance must never be used for mere political purposes, and it cannot by itself be intended to provide a lasting solution to a conflict. Humanitarian assistance should therefore never be a substitute for political, diplomatic and military action. In this context, Belgium, in close cooperation with the International Committee of the Red Cross, intends to organize next year, an international seminar precisely on the relationship between humanitarian, political and military actions. The focus will be on interaction between humanitarian, political and military actors in situations of crisis. This will be an opportunity to analyse closely the often widely varying approaches to this problem. The objective of international humanitarian assistance is not only to guarantee the survival of victims of humanitarian tragedies. It should also help them be reintegrated into society. Viewed in this fashion, humanitarian assistance is an important factor in the protection of human dignity, human rights and humanitarian law. The international community must therefore put an end to the impunity of persons responsible for grave violations of international humanitarian law, whether committed against populations or humanitarian personnel. The creation of the ad hoc tribunals for the prosecution and punishment of such violations and the necessary creation of a standing international criminal court, are important steps towards the fulfilment of these goals. However, it is essential that these international judiciary bodies should be given a fair chance to carry out their functions. Thus, their legal competence should be firmly established and recognized by all Member States. Respect for human rights has become an essential yardstick of the legitimacy of the exercise of State power and is increasingly considered a vital part of a country’s international status and influence. It has 31 become the new basis for the confidence we bestow on our fellow Member States. Next year the General Assembly will devote part of its session to the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. That Declaration, without any doubt, is one of the most important texts of our times. It is the foundation of the whole array of standards that came after it and that have been incorporated into a number of international legal instruments. It is also the bedrock upon which rest all United Nations activities aimed at better respect for and promotion of human rights, in accordance with the Charter. In the spirit of the Vienna World Conference on Human Rights, a growing number of Member States, in full exercise of their sovereignty, have accepted international commitments by ratifying those human rights instruments. However, I should like to express the hope that Member States will also spare no effort in having their provisions implemented. By so doing they will contribute to the universality of human rights. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights remains an inexhaustible source of hope for all those who are deprived of their rights, especially the victims of social, political or economic exclusion or exploitation on the basis of their race, origin, religion, sex or any other grounds. Consequently, I, fully subscribe to the Secretary- General’s stated intention to integrate human rights horizontally throughout the full range of United Nations activities. Belgium reiterates to the Secretary-General its full support in this respect. Let me conclude by saying that my country will make every effort — nationally, regionally and globally — so that the commemoration of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights will be a resounding success that reflects the capital importance of the event.  ﻿Let me extend to you, Mr. Vice-President, my warmest congratulations on your election. The Foreign Minister of Luxembourg, Mr. Jacques Poos, spoke on behalf of the European Union. I fully associate myself with his statement. The reform of the United Nations is inevitable. The new imperatives of globalization and interdependence must be recognized. Business as usual would inevitably lead to the marginalization of the United Nations in world affairs. I fully agree with Secretary-General Kofi Annan that we should see these changes as an opportunity, not as a threat. Reform is in the interest of all Member States, whether big or small, whether industrialized or developing countries. Where else but at the United Nations can we deal with the truly global issues such as the new security threats of uncivil society, environmental degradation, violations of human rights and poverty? Given the nature of these issues, unilateral, bilateral or even regional efforts are of course good, but not enough. Not even the most prosperous and powerful nations on earth can 8 successfully solve them alone. Only the United Nations has a global mandate and global legitimacy. The Secretary-General’s proposals are well attuned to our thinking in Finland. The General Assembly should consider these proposals as a coherent whole and give the Secretary-General the authority to act on them during this session. For our part, we, the Member States, must shoulder our responsibility for those reforms that require action by Governments. Human rights must become an integral part of all United Nations activities. We very much welcome the Secretary-General’s comprehensive approach in this regard. The celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights next year must produce practical results. The celebration is an opportunity to emphasize that human rights are universal rights that belong to all individuals, irrespective of culture or political systems. The duty of Governments is to promote, secure and protect these rights. Therefore, the international community has the authority to deal with human rights violations wherever they may occur. There is no difference between big or small States in this respect. Europe is by no means an exception. The common standards must be valid everywhere. The United Nations has a unique role to play because of its global reach. I personally respect and support regional arrangements and efforts to this end, but they must be in accordance with common United Nations standards. There is a genuine and growing demand for United Nations action in the field. The United Nations response today is hampered by inadequate resources. I pledge my Government’s full support to Mary Robinson, the newly appointed High Commissioner for Human Rights, in her important and challenging task. We in Finland are very serious people. We try to practise what we preach. Promoting human rights, including minority rights, is an integral part of our domestic policy and naturally extends to foreign policy. As a new feature, the Government intends to submit an annual report to Parliament on the human rights situation in the world. We hope such reports can and will contribute to a more regular and informed public debate on human rights issues. The United Nations has extensive experience in crisis management and peacekeeping. Lessons have been learned. One key lesson is the need to prevent emerging conflicts rapidly and coherently. Rapid decision-making is imperative both in the Security Council and at the national level. Once the political decisions are made, they should be implemented effectively and without delay. That is why we strongly support the establishment of a rapidly deployable mission headquarters. Finland has contributed to it financially and is also ready to make personnel available. We urge the Secretary-General to establish the headquarters without further delay. The recent local elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina were undoubtedly a success. The implementation of their results is the challenge for the coming weeks and months. The Dayton peace process is advancing, but at a disappointingly slow pace. Restoring normal living conditions will require major efforts by all the parties in the region. The international community, the United Nations and other organizations will have a tremendous task in assisting people to help themselves in this devastated region. The High Representative for the Implementation of the Peace Agreement on Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr. Carlos Westendorp, deserves our full support in securing the implementation of the Sintra agreements. There is also a need for the continued peacekeeping presence of the Stabilization Force (SFOR) or its successor force. Africa is the one continent most ravaged by violent conflicts and human suffering. The special session of the Security Council on Africa at the ministerial level is therefore a timely initiative. Crisis prevention and peacekeeping capabilities in Africa should be developed as a priority. We welcome the efforts already under way within the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and other regional and subregional settings. However, these efforts need wider international support. Finland is prepared to continue to do its part by providing assistance in training. We are also organizing in Helsinki, Finland, together with the OAU, a broad-based international conference of non-governmental organizations to promote their international involvement in strengthening peace- building in Africa. In the Middle East, events over the past year have taken a dangerous turn for the worse. Fulfilment of the obligations of the Oslo accords, and with it real improvement in the daily lives of the Palestinians, is still the best hope the parties have for a just and lasting peace. A turn for the better is first and foremost for the parties themselves to achieve. We urge them to exercise restraint in actions and in words. Finland, together with its European Union partners, is prepared to continue to play its part in supporting the peace process, but clearly the 9 parties themselves must play theirs for there to be a process to support. The hopes for the peace process should not be betrayed in the face of provocation, humiliation or frustration. Terrorism is unacceptable. It only benefits the extremists on both sides. In disarmament, the focus is shifting from weapons of mass destruction towards conventional arms, including small arms, as so many colleagues of mine have already mentioned here. The suffering caused by indiscriminate use of landmines is high on the United Nations agenda, and rightly so. Finland welcomes the Ottawa convention. It is a step towards a truly global and effective ban on anti-personnel landmines, a target which my Government strongly supports. The Ottawa process contains a promise, but it is clear that much work is still needed. Participation in a total ban, particularly by those who are major possessors, producers and exporters of these weapons, must be secured through negotiations at the Conference on Disarmament. Finland will continue to participate actively in the Conference’s efforts to stop the further spread of anti- personnel landmines through a global and effective treaty. The positive trend in disarmament and non-proliferation has been strengthened by the entry into force of the Chemical Weapons Convention and the bilateral commitments made by the Russian Federation and the United States regarding nuclear disarmament at the Helsinki summit. To assure further progress, these developments should now be followed up by Russian ratification of the Chemical Weapons Convention and the START II agreement. Finland has consistently advocated a strong United Nations, mandated and capable of addressing socio- economic and development issues in an effective and coordinated manner. In today’s world, globalization of the economy, trade liberalization and the information revolution have created an environment of interdependence. Poverty, the root cause of so many other ills, can be eliminated only through sustainable development. Finland, together with the other Nordic countries, has long spoken for a more unified United Nations system, both at Headquarters and at the country level. The Secretary- General’s proposals go in the right direction. The creation of the United Nations Development Group is an important first step. Full integration at country level of all United Nations activities, including those of the specialized agencies, must remain the goal. The Economic and Social Council and the web of organizations and committees operating within it need to be united in purpose and in action. The proposed reforms do not suffice. The coordinating role of the Council should be made real. To achieve this is the responsibility of the Member States. If we do not take action, the Council will sink into irrelevance. Similarly, a more coherent United Nations response is required to provide protection and humanitarian assistance to the victims of disasters, whether made by man or nature. The Emergency Relief Coordinator must ensure coherence and coordination in disaster relief. In that role, the Coordinator must receive the full support of all the humanitarian agencies. On the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of this Organization, I remember, more than 150 Heads of State or Government pledged their resolve to bring an end to the United Nations financial crisis. Today, two years later, only 89 Member States — I checked the figure today — have paid their dues in full and without conditions, and many of them did so late. More than half of the membership have not. Yet there are very few Member States whose non-payment stems from circumstances beyond their control, the only waiver known to the United Nations Charter. Non-payment is, in our view, a serious threat to the future of the United Nations, not only because of the unfair burden put on Member States that do pay, such as my country, but because it undermines the commitment and the solidarity that we as Member States share towards our common Organization and among ourselves. Finland understands the motivation behind the Secretary-General’s proposal for a revolving credit fund. However, such a fund — as we have understood it — would use voluntary contributions to cover unpaid legal dues. The United Nations might gain some respite, but so would the countries in arrears. Finland is not opposed to exploring this proposal if others so wish and if the establishment of such a fund is accompanied by real sanctions in case of non-payment of assessed contributions. Yesterday, we heard the Secretary-General in his statement ask the Governments assembled here to make the fifty-second session of the General Assembly a 10 “Reform Assembly”. This is a challenge that we and our Organization cannot afford to fail.  ﻿May I begin by congratulating the President on his election to preside over the fifty-second session of General Assembly and pledging to him the full support of my delegation. The new Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, has already put his mark on the United Nations, after less than nine months in office. He has led efforts to reform our Organization in an effective, fair and balanced manner. I congratulate him and pledge the unwavering support of my Government for his important mission. Increasingly, as we approach the new millennium, we have come to appreciate the value of international cooperation, as most clearly demonstrated by the historic first meeting of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)/Russia Permanent Joint Council in a ministerial session that took place here in this building today. The information revolution is advancing, and a new sense of global neighbourhood and the gradual abolition of trade barriers are raising the level of economic well- being in different parts of the world. At the same time, 25 the world community is faced with challenges of a new order of magnitude, making it necessary for Governments to pool their resources and work together. Global forces are in many ways eroding the traditional boundaries between nation States. The trend calls for the strengthening of international organizations competent to tackle issues that no single State or groups of States can deal with in isolation. Consequently, it is crucial that we strengthen the United Nations. Without a reinvigorated United Nations, the international community will not be in a position to address the foremost challenges confronting the twenty-first century. Sadly, our Organization has not been endowed to meet those challenges. Demands on the United Nations are greater than ever, and the limited resources at the Organization’s disposal are grossly disproportionate to the tasks in hand. The question inevitably arises: Do we wish to give the United Nations a clear and focused mandate and empower it to carry that mandate out? In my opinion our answer should be the same as the one Winston Churchill once gave: “Give us the tools and we will finish the job”. Once more we must urge all Member States to pay their contributions to the Organization fully and on time. The Secretary-General’s reform initiative is the most comprehensive attempt to date at fashioning the United Nations of tomorrow into an instrument capable of serving the common interests of all peoples, guided by the enduring tenets of peace, human rights, the rule of law and social progress, enshrined in the Charter more than half a century ago. Coming at the end of a thorough and useful debate, the Secretary-General’s report is in large part a distillation of views expressed by individual Governments. Inevitably, the report represents a compromise, unlikely to accommodate all the wishes of a single State or group of States. But, taken as a whole, it represents the best effort to obtain what is realistically feasible under the circumstances. The reform package should, in our opinion, be accepted as an integral whole. A focused discussion on the Secretary-General’s report should give a boost to the ongoing debate among Member States on an increase in the membership of the Security Council, as well as a more equitable representation on the Council. The Nordic countries have jointly presented their ideas on this issue. Iceland welcomes the paper submitted by the Chairman of the Security Council Working Group, which is largely in line with the suggestions of the Nordic countries, and hopes that efforts to resolve this fundamental aspect of the entire reform process may be brought to a successful conclusion during the current session. Although the reform of our Organization and its long-term credibility must have a high priority, regional conflicts continually demand our attention. In the Middle East, the situation has rarely been more uncertain since the signing of the Oslo accords. The parties to the accords must not be distracted from pursuing the path of peace. They should refrain from creating unnecessary hurdles in the path of peace by provocative undertakings likely to cause hostility, suspicion and fear. There should be a clear and unambiguous recognition that terrorism against innocent civilians is wholly incompatible with the pursuit of peace. Both parties have to ensure that international norms in the field of human rights and humanitarian law are respected. A troubled African continent remains at the top of the United Nations agenda. In sub-Saharan Africa, particularly the Great Lakes region, the situation is worrying. The United Nations, in cooperation with regional leaders and organizations, must spare no effort to prevent the peoples of this region from further suffering. By contrast, encouraging developments have taken place in Western Sahara, where direct talks, held under the auspices of the Personal Envoy of the Secretary- General, have greatly improved prospects for a referendum on the future of the region. Arms control and disarmament will continue to occupy an important place in the activities of our Organization. Our most immediate goal should be in the area of conventional arms: to work for a comprehensive ban on that most terrible destroyer of the lives and limbs of innocent people, the anti-personnel landmine. The recently concluded Oslo conference on this menace has provided a welcome impetus to work towards a binding treaty. Iceland strongly urges all States to banish this inhumane weapon from their arsenals. Human rights, which are of intrinsic value in themselves, are also a vital part of efforts to secure peace and stability in areas torn by wars and internal conflict. Next year marks the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. My Government applauds the Secretary-General’s proposed 26 streamlining of the work of the United Nations in the field of human rights, bearing witness to a strong emphasis on this crucially important aspect of our work. Unfortunately, the human rights of women continue to be disregarded. As the Secretary-General observed in this forum earlier this week, violence against women has become the most pervasive human rights violation. The international community must work harder to correct this situation and to improve the lot of women everywhere, not least through the creation of better education and employment opportunities. Trafficking in drugs is a peril that recognizes no national boundaries. To a greater or lesser degree, we are all affected by it. In addition to the cost in human lives and suffering, we are witness to calamities that follow in the wake of drug abuse, the spread of AIDS, prostitution and crime. Iceland welcomes United Nations efforts in the area of drug prevention and looks forward to the special session of the General Assembly on the problem of drugs next June. Next year has been declared the International Year of the Ocean by the United Nations. The world’s oceans are a crucial part of the earth’s biosphere, in addition to being the single largest source of protein for mankind. This vital resource is now threatened in some regions of the world. Therefore, it is important that the Year of the Ocean be used to raise public awareness and to reinforce efforts to protect the marine ecosystem. A global, legally binding agreement should be concluded to limit the emission of persistent organic pollutants. Problems afflicting the marine ecosystem call for greater coordination at the global level, and also in the sustainable use, conservation and management of living marine resources. At the same time, we must recognize that the primary responsibility for harvesting marine resources in a sustainable manner rests with the States that depend on such resources for survival. Also, while Governments must work with non-governmental organizations, there is a need to resist the indiscriminate pressure of unaccountable protectionist groups that wish to sever the vital link between environmental protection and economic self- interest. Although not yet in force, the Agreement for the Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 relating to the Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks, which provides a framework for regional cooperation in the conservation and management of these stocks, has already had a positive impact. In the North Atlantic, for instance, fisheries-management conventions are under review in order, inter alia, to adjust them to the provisions of this Agreement. Iceland urges Member States to ratify the Agreement. As a new member of the Economic and Social Council, Iceland welcomed the thorough discussion on fostering an enabling environment for development during this year’s substantive session. It is of grave concern that the gap between the rich and the poor has continued to widen. At a time of vastly expanded trade and investment in the world, the least developed countries have seen their share of world trade drop by half in two decades. Many of them are threatened with exclusion from world markets and economic marginalization. The key elements for attaining sustainable economic development are a sound policy framework that encourages stable growth, a vigorous private sector, the strengthening of institutional and legal foundations and, last but not least, good-governance and anti-corruption measures. At the same time, we need to focus on human- development strategies. The strengthening of education and school systems and health and social services must be an integral part of any sound strategy for development. We must mobilize the dynamic private sector, together with bilateral and multilateral official development assistance to secure sustainable growth and poverty reduction in developing countries. As the chairman of the Nordic and the Baltic constituency of the World Bank’s Development Committee, I emphasize the important role of the World Bank Group in development cooperation. I would like to reiterate what I stated in Hong Kong earlier this week: that the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative must result in a permanent solution to the unsustainable debt burden of the countries in question. 27 Finally, this is a time of extraordinary challenges for the United Nations and its Member States. This is why we need a vigorous, strong and confident Organization, capable of leading the way into the next century. For such an Organization to become a reality we must now focus on effective and meaningful reform. We should use the momentum and not fritter away our time in long-winded and familiar debates. Now we have an opportunity we may not have again any time soon.﻿I should like at the outset to make two imperative acknowledgments. The first is to congratulate Ambassador Hennadiy Udovenko on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly — and to congratulate the Assembly on the election of an insightful and experienced politician to preside over this session — which may, for many reasons, prove to be an exceptional one. The second is addressed to the Secretary-General at this first regular session convened under his mandate. Mr. Kofi Annan is a veteran of the United Nations system, which explains how, in the short time since he took up the post of Secretary-General, he has been able to submit an important programme for the comprehensive reform of the Organization. I wish also to state my Government’s full support of the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Luxembourg on behalf of the European Union. Spain shares the commitment of the European Union to the reform of the Organization; it is specifically upon this matter that my statement will be focused. When we speak of the reform of the Organization, we frequently link it with the financial crisis which the United Nations is undergoing. Yet I consider it important to differentiate the two questions and to emphasize that the reform process must not be seen solely as a remedy or factor for saving the United Nations from the financial crisis. On the one hand, the current crisis is fundamentally a crisis of payments. I shall return to this matter later on. On the other hand, the Organization’s supposed “failures” reflect the limits of cooperation in the international community as it exists at present. The crisis is, in any case, one of growth. The United Nations has to adapt and do away with the bureaucratic obstacles accumulated by the Organization during the decades of the cold war and to develop new means with which to tackle the complex situations it now faces. The great virtue of the reform programme introduced by the Secretary-General on 16 July is that, building on the better part of the thinking of recent years, it presents a comprehensive plan to adapt all sectors of the Organization. Recent experience has shown the difficulty of implementing partial reforms. The links among the main functions entrusted to the United Nations is becoming increasingly clear: international peace and security can hardly be maintained without genuine cooperation to promote the development of the world’s States and regions, and without respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. I should like straight away to declare Spain’s agreement with this approach and to make clear the backing which my country is willing to give to the Secretary-General’s programme. I will now present the views of the Spanish Government on the main aspects of the overall reform process. I shall begin with the reform of the Security Council. This is undoubtedly one of the most significant questions facing us, and its success will determine if the Organization will be able to enhance its legitimacy and its effectiveness in maintaining international peace and security in the future. The reform of the Security Council is a most sensitive task, involving an amendment to the Charter; it must therefore be undertaken carefully, without haste and on the basis of the broadest possible agreement. It must promote greater cohesion among the Organization’s Members and not create greater tension and suspicion among them. We should not forget: poorly- done reform could bring grave repercussions for the Organization, which could lead to an irreparable crisis of confidence. An increase in the number of members of the Security Council, and particularly of permanent members, is a much more contentious issue than the improvement of the Council’s working procedures. The category of permanent members of the Security Council was created in historical circumstances which no longer apply. Furthermore, the enlargement of that category could create more problems than benefits. Therefore, we consider it wisest in the present situation to limit enlargement to the category of non-permanent members. Current proposals for enlarging the permanent membership of the Security Council introduce formulas which tend to meet the legitimate interests of a few States, but fail to resolve serious problems raised for the vast majority of Members of the Organization, and so they cannot be positive for the United Nations as a whole. As far as the veto is concerned, aware of the difficulty in present circumstances of achieving its elimination, we propose that it be limited to situations involving Chapter VII of the Charter. In any case, proposals for the creation of new permanent seats, with postponement of discussion as to whether those seats would or would not have the veto, are not very realistic. 22 The leading role acquired by the United Nations at the end of the cold war in making, maintaining and consolidating peace is without historical precedent. Spain unreservedly supports United Nations efforts in the maintenance of international peace and security. In the last year, in addition to the Spanish contingents deployed in the International Police Task Force (IPTF) and the Stabilization Force (SFOR), forces from my country have participated in the United Nations Mission for the Verification of Human Rights and of Compliance with the Commitments of the Comprehensive Agreement on Human Rights in Guatemala (MINUGUA) demobilization process and in the multinational protection force for Albania, which, as the Prime Minister stressed just a few minutes ago, has helped to avoid a serious internal conflict. Spain was also ready to participate in the multinational force for Zaire. My Government is also studying ways of enhancing the Organization’s operational readiness, particularly by increasing its rapid deployment capabilities. While dealing with this matter, I must refer briefly to certain situations of special interest to my Government. The deterioration of the situation in the Serb Republic is a cause of special concern. We must continue to give firm backing to those in the Republic who are willing to cooperate with SFOR, the High Representative and the special envoys. Sub-Saharan Africa also deserves special attention. Of particular concern is the serious situation which persists in the Great Lakes region and in the Republic of Congo. Spain supports the efforts under way to restore peace, as well as the holding of an international conference under the auspices of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity (OAU). Likewise, with reference to the situation in Angola, Spain joins the appeal to UNITA to comply with its international commitments and to finally allow peace to come to this country. My Government welcomes the recent agreements reached in Houston to unblock implementation of the United Nations settlement plan for Western Sahara, and accordingly wishes to congratulate Morocco and the Polisario Front. I equally wish to congratulate the Personal Envoy of the Secretary-General, Mr. James Baker, on the efficient mediation work he has performed. My Government considers that the holding of a referendum, freely and with international guarantees, in which the Sahraqui people will exercise their right to self-determination, continues to be the only acceptable solution to this conflict. Spain, which has always supported the settlement plan, considers therefore that the extension of the mandate of the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO) is indispensable. My Government trusts that the parties will continue to demonstrate flexibility and a constructive spirit until the referendum is held. Spain is also following developments in the Middle East with the greatest concern. The peace process is, without a doubt, going through one of its most difficult phases. However, this dialogue is the only possible alternative. The European Union, in particular through its Special Envoy, the Spanish diplomat Miguel Angel Moratinos, is making major efforts. I should like here to reiterate the Spanish Government’s commitment to this process and to restate our willingness to continue to work actively for peace and understanding among the peoples of the region. With the signing of the Agreement on a Firm and Lasting Peace in Guatemala, a process in which Spain played an active role in the verification of compliance with the accords, the way has been paved to stability, the strengthening of democratic institutions and sustainable development in Guatemala. Spain will continue to support this process, through practical measures such as multilateral and bilateral cooperation. As I have already indicated, peacekeeping has become a multifaceted activity. In addition to military activities, it has become essential to take into account the humanitarian consequences of conflicts. In fact, the humanitarian role of the United Nations is increasingly linked to peacekeeping. Spain accordingly supports the Secretary-General’s initiatives to enhance the coordination and rapid deployment capability of the United Nations humanitarian response through the establishment of the Emergency Relief Coordination Office. Together with my Government’s official humanitarian aid, I must refer here to the commitment of Spanish civil society to such humanitarian operations, and pay tribute to all the international relief workers and missionaries who, generously and at risk to their very lives, are deployed in war-devastated areas. Five Spanish relief workers and four missionaries have been killed in recent months while performing their humanitarian tasks. Spain considers that additional measures must be adopted to protect those participating in these humanitarian missions, and we intend to introduce a proposal to that end during this session. Recent experience of the conflicts in the former Yugoslavia and in Rwanda has highlighted the need to 23 create a judicial body to prevent impunity and to facilitate reconciliation of war-torn societies and consolidate the peace process. The creation of an international criminal court is thus a matter to which the Spanish Government attaches great importance. Concern for the protection and promotion of human rights, which is becoming one of the Organization’s principal functions, underlies all these developments. As of 10 December and throughout 1998 we will be celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This will be an appropriate time to assess the situation and to devise strategies which will allow us to continue to move forward in the advancement of human rights. As pointed out by the Secretary-General in his report, the United Nations human rights programme must be integrated into the whole range of the Organization’s activities. Spain supports the Secretary-General’s proposal to consolidate the Centre for Human Rights and the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, and stresses the need to increase the human and financial resources devoted to the human rights programme. Spain will maintain an active policy in defence of human rights and will help to ensure general respect for human rights and for democratic principles. Another of the Organization’s major functions is cooperation for development. Spain welcomes the proposals put forward in this area by the Secretary-General. In particular, I should like to stress my support for the Secretary-General’s various initiatives aimed at ensuring the release of more funds for operational programmes. The inclusion in development cooperation activities of other than purely economic factors — such as social and environmental ones — is the expression of a concept to which the United Nations has given primary attention through a number of international conferences held under its auspices. I am referring to the subject of sustainable development. I would like to underline in this respect the importance that the Spanish Government attaches to environmental matters and our special interest in the problem of desertification, which affects Spain so directly. I wish to note in this context that my country is presenting the candidature of Murcia as headquarters of the permanent secretariat of the Convention to Combat Desertification. I am convinced that Murcia would be an excellent headquarters, and I therefore ask Members for their support. The attainment of effective international cooperation in the fight against terrorism is a priority objective for my Government. The phenomenon of terrorism cannot be controlled without complete and active cooperation at all levels. The conceptual advances made in the area of extradition that have taken place within the European Union must be furthered in the United Nations. The Spanish Government participates actively in the negotiations on the International Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings, aimed at creating an effective tool in the fight against terrorism that is acceptable to the largest possible number of countries. Spain also supports the Declaration on Measures to Eliminate International Terrorism and the Supplement to that Declaration adopted by the Assembly at its last session. In this connection, I cannot fail to mention the tragic situation in Algeria, a country which is a neighbour and a friend of Spain and which has the solidarity and support of my Government in its battle against the plague of terrorism. The Algerian Government can count on Spanish backing to continue resolutely the process of political reform, in order to achieve the widest possible base of support among the population, ensure peaceful and lasting coexistence and to eradicate terrorism. The fight against drug trafficking is also a question of the greatest importance to Spain, and it is one that undoubtedly has connections with terrorism and transnational crime. My Government therefore supports the creation in Vienna of an international crime prevention centre designed to reinforce the Organization’s capacity to combat these scourges. Spain is pleased with the decisive role played by the United Nations in disarmament and arms control. Spain welcomes the outcome of the Oslo Conference and will be signing the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on Their Destruction, while promoting discussion of this question in Geneva at the Conference on Disarmament. The preparation of a protocol to strengthen the Biological Weapons Convention — particularly in the field of verification; the negotiation of a convention to ban fissionable material for the manufacture of nuclear weapons; and the improvement of control and 24 transparency in conventional weapons: these are also matters of importance. The process of decolonization has without any doubt been one of the Organization’s greatest successes. It may therefore seem anachronistic to refer to this matter in a statement that deals with the reform of the United Nations and that focuses on the present and the most immediate future, rather than on the past. The reality, however, is that unresolved colonial situations unfortunately continue to exist, and our Organization still has to deal with them. With regard to these situations, Spain is affected directly and painfully by the question of Gibraltar. The existence of this colony on our territory — the colony of a State that, like Spain, belongs, to the Atlantic Alliance and to the European Union — is an anomaly and an anachronism that we are trying to resolve within the context of the doctrine established by the United Nations. In resolution 2353 (XXII), and in accordance with resolution 1514 (XV), the General Assembly acknowledged that the colonial status of Gibraltar violates Spanish territorial integrity and that the principle of self-determination therefore does not apply. The territory of Gibraltar was an integral part of Spain, and the Spaniards who lived there were expelled when a military base was established. Pursuant to the repeated invitations made by the United Nations to Spain and to the United Kingdom to settle this matter by negotiation, my Government is engaged in the search for a solution through the bilateral channel established in the Brussels Declaration of November 1984. The Spanish authorities have given repeated assurances that the legitimate interests of the inhabitants of Gibraltar will be respected. I very recently and publicly formulated a most generous offer whereby, following the reincorporation of Gibraltar into Spain, the current inhabitants of the colony would be allowed to retain the broad outlines of their present economic and legal situation. We believe that this offer should help us advance in the bilateral negotiations with the United Kingdom. We all agree on to the irreplaceable nature of our Organization and on the need to reform it. However, our Organization cannot prosper, nor can the reforms be put in place, if we Member States do not comply in full with our financial commitments. As the Secretary-General himself has pointed out, the Organization’s present financial crisis is a payments crisis. The punctual and full payment of contributions is an international legal obligation that should be recognized by all States that respect the international rule of law. It is unacceptable that any Member State should place conditions on these payments or on the payment of arrears. Such a practice would lead eventually to the bankruptcy of the Organization we defend. As early as 1996, the European Union introduced a proposal designed to encourage States to meet their financial obligations to the Organization and to establish a fairer scale of assessments. Spain hopes that this proposal will be carefully considered at this session. The United Nations is the main international forum entrusted with maintaining international peace and security, with promoting development, human rights and fundamental freedoms and with ensuring cooperation between States. The indispensable nature of its role has become clear in recent years. Finally, I would like to restate the Spanish Government’s firm commitment to the purposes contained in the Charter of the United Nations and to reassert our unshakeable determination to continue to participate in the reform process in the firm belief that, together, we will be able to adapt the United Nations to the requirements of the new millennium.  ﻿I begin by congratulating Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session. I am confident that the skills and vast experience he has acquired throughout his distinguished diplomatic career will provide the guidance we need to guarantee the successful outcome of the session. I must also recall the remarkable diligence of his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Razali Ismail, and his valuable contribution to the work of the fifty-first regular session and the nineteenth special session of the General Assembly. As the twentieth century comes to an end, it is evident that all countries in the world, advanced, developing and transitional, will be substantially affected by globalization. Further specialization, the widening of markets through trade, a broader division of labour and a more efficient and more diversified allocation of financial resources should increase overall productivity and raise 16 living standards. However, no country will benefit from this trend spontaneously or automatically. The major tasks that Governments face today are development and the pursuit of sound policies and appropriate structural adjustments to meet the challenges and take advantage of the opportunities of globalization. Economic reforms, which Armenia began immediately after its declaration of independence, have changed all key sectors of the economy, particularly agriculture, enterprises, prices and wages, the banking industry and the fiscal, foreign trade and exchange systems. Concurrently, the country began the institution of secure property rights and a judiciary strong enough to protect them. After a devastating fall in real output from 1991 through 1994, macroeconomic and structural reforms, combined with privatization, have stabilized the country's economy while bringing down inflation, and allowed Armenia to achieve significant growth in 1996. Armenia's gross domestic product, which dropped 25.3 per cent on average from 1991 to 1993, has turned around and has averaged 6.3 per cent annual growth since then. This is despite a disastrous earthquake in 1988, the conflict between Nagorny Karabakh and Azerbaijan, which caused the inflow of more than 300,000 refugees, and continuing problems in obtaining stable energy and industrial supplies because of a blockade imposed by neighbouring Azerbaijan. The drastic changes were coincident with the adoption of a medium-term macroeconomic reform programme supported by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. The major objectives for the 1997 period are: to maintain a real annual growth rate in gross domestic product of about 6 per cent; to continue curbing the inflation rate for the whole year and keeping it under 10 per cent; and to augment the level of gross foreign exchange reserves to the equivalent of 2.8 months of imports. Also, the Government of Armenia will go on to take several measures during the programme period aimed at continuing to refine the targeting of social safety-net benefits to alleviate a sharp decrease in average consumption levels and improve income distribution. For Armenia and countries with economies in transition as a whole, the move towards world market prices brought severely deteriorated terms of trade. The introduction of currency convertibility and a notable increase in external borrowing began to cause frequent unsustainable external debt positions. The resources which are urgently required to modernize the industrial structure to internationally competitive levels and to improve the general infrastructure immensely exceed domestic saving capacities. This situation underlines the necessity of addressing more thoroughly the needs of countries in transition by the international donor community, though this should not cause a decrease in official development assistance flows to the developing world. In this context, Armenia welcomes the adoption of the Agenda for Development by the General Assembly earlier this year as one of the major documents which should be among the guidelines for actions of the United Nations system and affiliated institutions to strengthen international cooperation for development. We also support the appraisal of conditions in Africa, least developed countries, small island developing States and landlocked developing countries as “Critical situations and special problems” within the Agenda for Development, and we hope that the post-cold-war international community will pay more attention to these issues of prime concern. The interaction between the United Nations and other multilateral development institutions, including the Bretton Woods institutions and the World Trade Organization, should be intensified, involving the field level in particular. Joint efforts could be concentrated especially on those areas where private investors need encouragement, and where without such general institutional support they would hesitate to commit long- term capital. Proper intergovernmental follow-up and implementation of the corresponding General Assembly and Economic and Social Council resolutions and decisions are capable of facilitating this process. Sustainable development and related environmental issues are other areas of strategic importance where the United Nations must further strengthen its credibility. We acknowledge the outcome of the nineteenth special session of the General Assembly for the purpose of an overall review and appraisal of the implementation of Agenda 21 as an important step to enhance the implementation of the major international global and regional environmental agreements. Economic and democratic reforms are complementary and heavily interdependent. Political and economic freedom means more predictable, more transparent, more constitutional, less discriminatory and less corruption-prone law-making and enforcement. 17 We recognize democracy and respect for human rights, universal access to knowledge and information and a high level of public awareness as preconditions for sustainable social development. We welcome the Secretary-General's efforts to strengthen the role of human rights within the United Nations system. Armenia considers self-determination to be an inalienable human right. In this respect, the Nagorny Karabakh conflict continues to occupy the Government of Armenia. Despite concentrated negotiations of the past several years, the maintenance of a ceasefire for more than three years, and the intensified efforts of the international community, the Nagorny Karabakh peace process continues to suffer from a lack of serious progress. The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) Lisbon Summit of December 1996, which was expected to reflect on the peace process, to consolidate the ceasefire and to provide impetus for a possible breakthrough this year, failed to serve its intended purpose. Instead, by attempting to predetermine the final status of Nagorny Karabakh, it unnecessarily stiffened Azerbaijan's position and minimized the possibility of a mutually acceptable compromise solution. We believe that the final status of Nagorny Karabakh should be negotiated between the parties directly involved and not dictated by outside interested parties. Armenia appreciates the most recent efforts of the Minsk Group Co-Chairmen to reach a compromise solution, which were also manifested in the Denver statement of the Presidents of the three co-chairing countries. Armenia has provided a detailed response to the proposal of the Minsk Group Co-Chairmen, insisting on securing commonly recognized freedoms for the Nagorny Karabakh population, as well as guaranteeing their security so that their physical existence and control over their territory and destiny are never threatened. Armenia believes that a resolution acceptable to all parties involved is key to establishing durable peace and stability in the region and to stimulating economic growth and prosperity in Armenia, Azerbaijan and Nagorny Karabakh. My country remains committed to a negotiated settlement of the conflict and will continue to engage constructively in the peace process. However, we urge Azerbaijan to negotiate directly with the elected officials of Nagorny Karabakh, for we strongly believe that no final solution can be achieved without Karabakh's direct participation in the deliberations on its own political status. The Republic of Armenia has been actively participating in the fields of arms control and disarmament. We reaffirm our commitment to full implementation of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) objectives. To that end, Armenia welcomes the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) programme on strengthening the effectiveness and improving the efficiency of the safeguards system. We have already expressed our readiness to conclude a supplementary protocol to the safeguards agreement with the IAEA. Last year the overwhelming majority of United Nations Member States signed the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. We join the international community in calling upon all States to sign and ratify this Treaty to ensure its early entry into force. The Chemical Weapons Convention was another historic accomplishment in the field of global disarmament. As a founding member of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, Armenia will advocate the full and effective implementation of the Convention. Armenia also supports the complementary efforts — through the Ottawa process — aimed at achieving a complete ban on anti-personnel landmines. We realize the importance of developing technological solutions to mine detection and clearance, and we fully support programmes on assistance to mine victims. The reform of the Security Council should become another important component of the overall reform within the United Nations. Armenia supports the current discussions on improving the representative character of the Security Council. We are in favour of expansion in both categories, permanent and non-permanent. However, while strengthening the capacity of the Council, such an increase should also safeguard its decision-making efficiency. We believe that five new seats should be allocated as permanent for the Security Council to better reflect present political and economic realities. This arrangement should include improved representation for the countries of Africa, Asia, and Latin America and the Caribbean. We also support the desire of Germany and Japan to acquire the status of permanent members of the Security Council. As regards the non-permanent seats, it is our view that the expansion should take into account the legitimate interests of the Eastern European Group, whose membership has more than doubled in recent years. 18 The Government of Armenia welcomes the proposals by the Secretary-General for the reform of the United Nations. We fully support his commendable efforts to refine the structure of this Organization and to streamline the operations of its system, to make it more flexible and capable of adequate, timely responses to the challenges of today's world. These proposals are a sound basis for immediate actions, further negotiations and deliberations by the General Assembly. There is a strong need to consolidate the ongoing attempts of the United Nations system and Member States to alter and develop the Organization. At the same time, we should avoid reducing the evaluation of these reforms to a purely financial or managerial approach. Reform must enable the United Nations to attain more effectively the mandates and priorities enshrined in the Charter. In conclusion, let me assure the Assembly that Armenia, keenly aware of the importance of an effective and active United Nations, is committed to contributing its share in the strengthening of this Organization.  ﻿Your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session, Sir, gives me the pleasant opportunity to congratulate you most warmly and to wish you all the best for success in carrying out the noble task entrusted to you. I wish also to pay tribute to your predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail, who discharged his mandate with a skill and effectiveness that earned our respect and appreciation. My praise goes also to Mr. Kofi Annan, who since taking up his duties has worked with courage and selflessness to revitalize the Organization with a view to bringing it into step with the times and with the aspirations of the peoples it brings together. 10 We are meeting once again at a time when it is being confirmed and reconfirmed that the international Organization is facing a comprehensive transition involving two fundamental questions: whether mankind is able, first, to form a concept of the Organization and to put that concept into practice, and secondly, to ensure that the concept and its implementation enjoy universal participation rather than being the sole preserve of the dominant Powers. The fact is that this transition has both a political and a strategic dimension. Now, soon after the cold war, the closure of the East-West rift and the end of the bipolar system, we must find a new pattern of balances in order to establish a new, more just and more unified world order, a world order that respects the interests and aspirations of all, a world order that quite simply restores the values and ideals on which our Organization was built. This transitional phase also has a basic economic dimension: the challenge of globalization, which must be faced by us all in unity so that there will be room for the aspirations of each of us. The test is to master globalization, for unbridled globalization would bring new setbacks and new exclusions, which would pose a threat to all. Finally, this transition has a new dimension: that of coping with threats thus far misunderstood or underestimated, such as the scourges of international terrorism, drug trafficking, international organized crime and environmental degradation. In a related vein, we must share the objective of establishing States based on the rule of law, human rights and good governance as the foundation of the new international relations we are building. Clearly, the United Nations is an active partner in this global transition; hence, it must first of all adapt itself to ongoing changes so that it can influence their development. The Secretary-General has in fact taken the good step of beginning reflection along these lines, for which we commend him, and has taken the initiative to reform the Organization. Here, let me share some of my thoughts on this great plan for the future. My first thought is somewhat methodological in nature. In the package of reforms submitted we distinctly see those which come within the sole purview of the Secretary-General of our Organization, and he has the right as well as the duty to implement these reforms. But at the same time, it is equally clear that other proposed reforms come only within the purview of Member States, which must naturally discuss them before taking a decision. My second thought gives me the opportunity first of all to express our satisfaction at the inclusion of new priorities in United Nations activities — be they in the area of human rights, humanitarian affairs, the environment, combating terrorism or the crackdown on drug trafficking. These are all new universal concerns, and the United Nations has a central place in dealing with them. Having said that, the objective of streamlining our Organization’s activities should not sacrifice what has been and remains the very reason for being of the United Nations — the two pillars on which it has always rested, namely peace and development. From this standpoint, international cooperation for development, as much as international security and disarmament affairs, must not suffer on account of the restructuring contemplated. Otherwise, the credibility and effectiveness of the United Nations would be eroded in these areas of action, which are destined to remain at the forefront of the challenges which our countries will have to face. My third thought concerns the financial crisis of our Organization. Proposals made by the Secretary-General, be it to introduce a new culture of management of resources or to create a revolving fund, are of some interest. However, it is important that Member States be motivated, first and foremost, by the obligation they have pursuant to the provisions of the Charter to pay their contribution to the budget of the Organization regularly and fully. This, in effect, is where we find the genuine and lasting solution to a problem which seems to go on indefinitely and which should be distinguished and solved as such, without its serving as justification for depriving the United Nations of essential functions which it intends to undertake in the service of all. My fourth thought relates to the United Nations General Assembly. If it has become absolutely necessary today to streamline the work of this central body and to re-examine its programme and work methods, we should, by the same token, see to it that the Assembly continues to be the special forum of States where essential issues concerning peace, security and development can be debated and considered. This is certainly one of the most appropriate ways to ensure effective participation in the 11 management of world affairs, in our quest for solutions to international problems, and to promote genuine democratization of international relations. In the era of democracy, transparency and proper management that we are claiming for our countries, there is nothing more normal than to insist, together, on the same values and principles in this Organization which unites us. It is in this same spirit that we see the problem of the legal nature of General Assembly decisions and resolutions, which should be given the necessary effectiveness. It is also in this spirit that we see the problem of re-balancing the powers of the Secretary-General and the General Assembly, which should come consistently within the scope of redefining all the relationships among the principal organs of the United Nations. Finally, and this is my last thought, a revision of the United Nations Charter is of crucial importance and requires in-depth thought which would raise our Organization to a level on par with the vision, principles and objectives which are inherent in it. In this same line of thought, and even if this goes beyond the context of reforms proposed by the Secretary- General, I would like to refer to the issue of the expansion of the Security Council. The Council is, quite obviously, the body whose role and responsibilities best reflect the hopes, expectations and, above all, the frustrations of States. Consequently, it is important that the reform tries to reflect correctly the qualitative and quantitative changes which have taken place in international relations. The enhancement of the political and moral authority, as well as the legitimacy, of this vital body requires a balanced representation within it, whether with regard to permanent or non-permanent seats. Furthermore, any decisions regarding its expansion and the revision of its methods of deliberation and decision-making would benefit by having the broadest possible support of Member States. The declaration of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the Non-Aligned Countries in New Delhi in April 1997, which was reaffirmed here in New York, and that of African heads of State and Government in Harare in June 1997 are, in this regard, valuable contributions for our collective thinking regarding the membership and functioning of the Security Council which we all hope will serve our common expectations. Among the new challenges facing the international community, terrorism is the one which apparently is the most formidable because of its threats not only to the basic rights of the individual but also to the very democratic foundations of our societies. No State can consider itself immune from these threats in the long run. In this regard, we should welcome the international community’s awareness which has taken shape of the real nature of this phenomenon. This has been accompanied by greater mobilization of efforts against this scourge, which, above and beyond hindering economic and social development of States, engenders the most serious dangers to international peace and security. In addition, we should welcome the decision of the General Assembly to include the campaign against international terrorism among the major priorities in its medium-term plan of action. The present stage requires that we make effective use of every achievement by guiding United Nations action in an innovative and practical direction, based on operational legal aspects of multilateral activities against terrorism. In the same vein, the conclusion of an international convention to suppress acts of terrorism in an integrated, global manner must be one of the major priority areas for more effective international action. The international community must, above all, resolutely respond to the needs of the struggle against terrorism, depriving terrorists of sanctuary and strictly abiding by the relevant international instruments. In every sphere, Algeria is continuing to work for the emergence and consolidation of mutually beneficial frameworks for dialogue, solidarity and cooperation and for the promotion of relations based on confidence, mutual respect and common interest. That is what guides Algeria in its commitment to building a Maghreb that is united, acts in solidarity and is stable and prosperous. Algeria, which has made the Maghreb project a national priority, is resolved to work together with its partners there to relaunch the process of building the Maghreb on a solid and durable basis. To this end, my country is contributing to the search for a just and lasting solution to the question of Western Sahara. Aware of its responsibilities as both a neighbouring country and an official observer of the Settlement Plan, Algeria has repeatedly urged the 12 international community to shoulder its responsibilities with regard to the peace process in Western Sahara. The recent agreement in Houston, resulting from the direct talks between the Kingdom of Morocco and the POLISARIO Front, under the auspices of Mr. James Baker, the Personal Envoy of the Secretary-General, brought a solution to problems that had until then prevented implementation of the United Nations Settlement Plan. This constitutes major progress towards the final settlement of this conflict, and Algeria, like the rest of the international community, is delighted. Concerned for the stability and security of the region, Algeria will continue to make a full contribution to the efforts of the Secretary-General and his Personal Envoy aimed at the holding of a referendum to enable the people of Western Sahara freely to exercise their right to self- determination. In the Mediterranean almost a quarter of a century ago my country distinguished itself through its pioneering role in highlighting the indivisible link between the two coasts of our common sea with regard to security and cooperation matters. The Helsinki process began at that time. Because of its dedication to the Barcelona process, Algeria is today continuing to work to establish and consolidate permanent frameworks for dialogue and cooperation so as to ensure that we deal in a satisfactory manner with the political, security, economic and human concerns of all the States in the European-Mediterranean theatre as well as the legitimate aspirations of their peoples. We are encouraged in this regard by the reaffirmation at the Second Euro- Mediterranean Conference, held in Malta on 15 and 16 April 1997, of the dedication of the Mediterranean countries to the Barcelona process, which rightly constitutes a major political achievement that should be preserved and promoted. In the same context, I am pleased to refer to the holding of the fourth meeting of Foreign Ministers of the Mediterranean Forum in Algiers on 11 and 12 July. This provided the European-Mediterranean theatre with a special meeting place for dialogue to foster mutual understanding and give a new dynamic to the promotion of the European- Mediterranean partnership, at both the multilateral and bilateral levels. Within the Mediterranean theatre, recent developments in the Middle East are in many respects causing great alarm and legitimate concerns on the part of the international community. Prospects for peace that were recently opened up by the peace process now seem dangerously distant, and fear of a return to confrontation is increasing every day. At the heart of the current impasse are the Israeli Administration’s renunciation of the Oslo declaration and the Washington agreements; its negation of the principle of land for peace and its refusal to resume negotiations at the point at which they were suspended; and its continuing policy of settlement, including in Al-Quds Al- Sharif, where a programme of systematic judaization is continuing. The Israeli Administration must understand that only a lasting peace — that is, a just and comprehensive peace — can ensure genuine security for all the peoples of the region. The revitalization of the peace process requires the Israeli Administration urgently to end its unilateral actions, which are contrary to the spirit and letter of the commitments that it entered into. Similarly, it cannot indefinitely and with impunity go against the will of the international community, which has set as an absolute requirement for peace withdrawal from the Golan and southern Lebanon, as well as the right to self-determination of the Palestinian people, including their right to an independent State with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital. Also in that part of the world the Iraqi people are continuing to suffer unjustly from the effects of a cruel embargo. My country can only renew its appeal for the lifting of sanctions, which have lasted for too long and cannot be justified today. This appeal also applies to the situation of the Libyan people, who also continue to be subjected to an embargo that is as unjust as it is invalid. Given the start of the process of disengagement from Africa by the international community, and the dangers of marginalization, Africa’s resurgence demonstrates its firm determination to take charge of its destiny and to break the cycle of dependence once and for all. This welcome development also demonstrates the collective determination of Africa to face the considerable challenges that confront it by relying first and foremost on its own resources. In fact, every day Africa gives the lie to the theory that it is condemned to be a zone without laws or development, a zone of insecurity and instability. The democracy and pluralism, which are gaining ground every day in Africa and taking firm hold and the economic growth at rates that are often spectacular, point to new development prospects. At the same time, Africa is showing a promising capacity for conflict management and resolution. 13 The establishment of the Organization of African Unity Central Organ’s Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution and the Treaty setting up the African Economic Community are the product of the spirit of solidarity and mutual assistance which is rooted in African culture and of a strategy for giving fresh impetus to intra-African factors of integration and complementarity. This is the forum to state that the international community must encourage and help these praiseworthy efforts. In this regard, we welcome the convening of a special ministerial meeting of the Security Council on Africa, which is a major political advance. We venture to hope that we are thereby taking steps towards international solidarity with the African continent, which will finally be considered an active partner which cannot be excluded from humankind’s great march towards the fulfilment of its destiny. The signs of recovery which have recently been evident through the growth of the world economy are a real source of satisfaction. However, this slight improvement needs to be consolidated so as to make it the lasting trend of the end of the century. In this regard, it is particularly important that the problems of development around the world, and particularly in developing countries, be given priority, since the current contribution of developing countries is still well below their potential and falls short of the role they legitimately want to play. The phenomenon of globalization, which promises so much, instead continues to bring great uncertainty to the countries of the South, which is compounded by concern at seeing many of them further marginalized and even excluded from the long-awaited overall development process they so desire. This state of affairs is mainly due to a structure of international relations still marked by the North-South divide. It highlights the continuation of the basically adverse nature of an international economic environment characterized by the North’s increasing monopoly of the decisive elements of development: trade, financial and stock markets, flows of capital and investment, and technology transfer. The countries of the South have made economically and socially costly adjustments, and carried out bold reforms in their quest for greater integration into world trade, but they still encounter numerous difficulties. These are aggravated by, inter alia: stifling external indebtedness; a continued deterioration of the terms of trade; an alarming decline in official development assistance; and an equally worrying reduction of international cooperation for development in general. These disturbing trends are in contrast with the global consensus that has emerged during major international conferences organized over the past decade under the auspices of the United Nations. They raise legitimate questions as to the very future of the system established to organize international cooperation for development. On the eve of the third millennium, and at a time when we are trying to find consensus on the need to reform our Organization to prepare it to take up challenges and face future tasks, we all need to do some soul-searching. Tomorrow’s United Nations will be what we, the peoples of the United Nations, want it to be. And the new United Nations that our countries intend to build will, above all, need to be freed from the mistakes and bad habits of the past. Yesterday, the United Nations was a melting pot for the ideals and values that unite us; tomorrow its job is to reconcile these ideals and values with all the expectations of our peoples and nations that are still to be met. This reform project should result in our ideals and values being dealt with in the only way that matters, namely, turned into a vision that become reality. This is what lies at the heart of this major project which we can undertake for the United Nations and, in the final analysis, for ourselves.  ﻿Please allow me at the outset, Sir, to express my sincere congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session. The expectations of this session are great and the tasks demanding; however, your experience and political wisdom are a guarantee that they will be fulfilled. I would like to take this opportunity to thank His Excellency for Razali Ismail, Ambassador of Malaysia, for his energetic and successful presidency of the fifty-first session. Almost two years have passed since we, Heads of State and Government of the United Nations Member States, confirmed our commitment to the idea of reform in this very Hall. This reform should contribute to the accomplishment of the mission of the United Nations in the current international situation as well as to greater efficiency of the Organization. Today, we have before us a comprehensive set of proposals by the Secretary- General in “Renewing the United Nations: A Programme for Reform” (A/51/950). This document proves that the discussions held within the last two years, and the experience gained in recent decades, have helped the new Secretary-General to prepare, within a few months, concrete proposals providing a basis for further decisions. Slovenia joins those who have expressed their appreciation to the Secretary-General for the impressive work he has performed in the first months of his mandate. This work has included concrete measures for the functioning of the Secretariat and proposals for reform. We are well aware, however, that the responsibility now lies with us. We, the representatives of the Member States and the peoples of the United Nations, are responsible for decisions that will give impetus to the necessary reforms and enable the Organization to deal with the tasks of the coming century. Our approach should not be based primarily on calculations of what individual Member States might gain from the reform. It should above all be based on an assessment of how to reform the Organization so that it will better serve all of us. This will be possible only if the Organization becomes better able to fulfil its basic tasks — the maintenance of international peace and security and comprehensive economic and social development, particularly in developing countries — and to ensure broad respect for the promotion and protection of individual and collective human rights. Another important requirement for the success of this reform programme is for the United Nations to take its decisions promptly and on time. The past years have made possible all-round discussion about reform. And now is the time for decisions: Slovenia believes that major decisions should be taken during the first part of the present session of the General Assembly. The President of the General Assembly will play a significant role with regard to those decisions that cannot be postponed. We fully support and encourage you, Sir, in your assumption of an active role and in your determined management of the decision-making process. Slovenia supports the proposals contained in the Secretary-General’s report on a programme for reform. This project deserves all our attention and assistance. Its main value is that it offers the possibility of concrete decisions while remaining open to new ideas and proposals. The proposals for promoting sustainable development, defined as a priority task by the Secretary-General himself, deserve careful examination. The impression is that these proposals are headed in the right direction, although clearer answers to questions on development financing will be required. The “development dividend” created by the streamlining of the Secretariat will not be able to provide all the answers we need. Concrete proposals will be needed to define more accurately the tasks of the proposed office for development financing, which would encourage innovative means of mobilizing new financial resources for development. Slovenia agrees with the suggestion of the Secretary- General that human rights should be integrated into all principal activities of the United Nations, such as peace and security, economic and social affairs, development cooperation and humanitarian affairs. This approach promises a significant improvement in the activities of the United Nations in these areas. It would also lead to increasingly comprehensive United Nations activities in the field of human rights. Respect for human rights is achieved not only through the functioning of instruments to monitor compliance with international treaties but also through political, social and economic measures that allow human rights to become an integral part of social development and a part of the everyday life of each individual. Observance of human rights must be closely linked with the promotion of social progress and the eradication of poverty in order to secure human dignity, essential social security and development. Furthermore, this would substantially contribute to the elimination of political tensions and of the root causes of threats to international peace. Should the United Nations fail to ensure respect for human dignity and the protection of human rights, its basic mission will not be fulfilled. The new High Commissioner for Human Rights will certainly assume an important role in the search for solutions to salient issues. We note with pleasure that it is Mrs. Mary Robinson, until recently the President of Ireland, who has been appointed to this post. Mrs. Robinson has already won worldwide recognition, and we wish her every success and look forward to her proposals for improvements in the field of human rights. Reform of the Security Council constitutes an important part of the reform of the United Nations. The period following the end of the cold war only reconfirms the importance of the effective functioning of the mechanisms of collective security. However, it also calls for changes in the composition of the Security Council and for the improvement of its working methods. Slovenia is committed to a reasonable and balanced increase in the number of permanent and non-permanent members of the Security Council, to a restriction on the use of the veto and to greater transparency in the functioning of the Council. It is our hope that the discussions on Security Council reform, which have been going on for several years now, will lead to appropriate decisions that have the genuine support of the membership of the United Nations. Slovenia also endorses the approach taken by the Secretary-General in the field of disarmament. Disarmament has been one of the priority goals of the United Nations since its foundation. We have good reason to be satisfied, since disarmament efforts have registered considerable progress with respect to weapons of mass destruction. The Chemical Weapons Convention, signed four years ago, entered into force this year. We expect it to be implemented effectively, although this will be feasible only if the Convention is ratified by all the remaining countries, particularly those disposing of large stockpiles of chemical weapons or of resources for their production. 2 The indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the conclusion of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty last year have considerably reduced the dangers created by nuclear weapons. But the time has come to take further steps. We need to ensure universal adherence to the ban on nuclear tests and to accelerate negotiations for the ban on the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons. Endeavours towards the reduction of nuclear-weapon arsenals should be intensified in order to ensure their gradual elimination. I wish to place special emphasis on the importance of the early adoption of the international convention on a comprehensive ban on anti-personnel landmines and their destruction. Slovenia has joined those countries that have already renounced their use, transfer and production, and has been participating actively in the Ottawa process since its inception. Negotiations concerning these issues have just been brought to a successful conclusion at the diplomatic conference in Oslo. Early in December of this year, Slovenia will join those who intend, in the presence of the Secretary-General, to sign the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Landmines and on Their Destruction. Disarmament efforts constitute an important element in the strengthening of international security. The formation and implementation of the regional arms control and disarmament regimes represent an effective mechanism in strengthening security. The experience gained during the Balkan crisis, which posed the most serious threat to peace in Europe since the foundation of the United Nations, strengthens our belief that lower armament thresholds should be imposed. More weapons can only present greater temptation and danger. None of the endeavours aimed at modernizing the Organization by providing relevant answers to global issues will have any guarantee of success if the United Nations proves unable to contribute to the solution of those crisis situations that pose a threat to international peace and that generate humanitarian problems. These situations are now assuming larger dimensions than in any other period of United Nations activity to date. The credibility of the Organization and the functioning of its main bodies must be repeatedly proven. Special importance in this respect must be attached to the activities of the Security Council, which, in accordance with the Charter, bears primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. Today, expectations regarding action by the Security Council are more realistic than they were several years ago. However, they are no less demanding. The Security Council is taking an active part in issues concerning international peace on the African continent. It has proved its ability to apply a variety of the methods that are at its disposal in accordance with the Charter. These include preventive diplomacy, cooperation with the Organization of African Unity, classic peacekeeping operations and the use of measured and focused economic sanctions. The appropriate choice of these methods has enabled the Security Council to formulate relevant approaches to the situations in Liberia, Angola and Burundi. As for some other crisis areas, including the Republic of the Congo, the most appropriate approach still remains to be found. The Security Council is also participating in settling issues which arise after the military conflicts. In Europe, the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina provides an example of such involvement. Following the conclusion of the Dayton agreement, which halted the war, the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina has stabilized to a certain extent. Yet peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina is still far from secure. The return of refugees is proceeding slowly, is limited, and is facing hindrances. The authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina have not been functioning as stipulated in the peace accord, and the principal war-crime suspects have not yet been transferred to stand trial at the International Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. The United Nations has been performing a number of important tasks in Bosnia and Herzegovina, particularly in the areas of humanitarian aid, unarmed civil police activity and criminal prosecution. The scope of the present engagement of the United Nations in Bosnia and Herzegovina is, however, is in proportion with the increased coordination of action taken in Bosnia and Herzegovina by other international organizations. At the same time, success in those fields falling within the competence of the United Nations is of critical importance for the establishment of lasting peace. Let me take this opportunity to stress that the inevitable starting point for solving the crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the precise identification of the nature of that devastating war, which has not been completely stopped. If there is a lack of willingness to identify the reasons for and the nature of the war, and its aims and protagonists, then the healing will inevitably be a lengthy and expensive process, with many risks to human life and property. One must even envisage the possibility that the search for peace might prove unsuccessful. 3 The activities underway in Bosnia and Herzegovina have assumed the character of a post-conflict action, but their aim is also a preventive one. Experience gained in recent years has shown that conflicts often re-emerge in the absence of appropriate preventive action of a diplomatic, economic or, if necessary, military character. The time to withdraw the international forces from Bosnia and Herzegovina will have to be considered very carefully. Withdrawing too early could lead to a recurrence of the initial situation of instability or of armed conflict. An example of successful preventive action representing an important lesson for the future has been provided by the international operation in Albania this year. Operation Alba was conducted on the initiative and under the leadership of Italy, in agreement with the Albanian Government and with the authorization of the Security Council. That operation has shown how quick and determined action taken by a group of countries in the vicinity of the emerging crisis situation, and with the authorization of the Security Council, can prevent armed conflict and potential destabilization in the region. Slovenia took part in that successful operation and is ready to participate in other preventive actions, as well as in other peacekeeping operations. That readiness has been confirmed by the decision of the Security Council to include a Slovenian contingent in the peacekeeping operation in Cyprus. The recent international action in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania, as examples of regional crises, demonstrates the importance of the participation of regional organizations; such a role has been played by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Slovenia’s readiness to contribute towards implementing the objectives of the United Nations has also been manifested by the candidature of Slovenia for a non- permanent seat on the Security Council for the period 1998- 1999 in the elections to be held at the General Assembly in a few weeks’ time. Slovenia has confirmed its role as a State that has been successfully coping with the issues of development and of good-neighbourly relations. Within the scope of its possibilities, it has also been striving for long- term stabilization of the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the region at large. Through this action and its other international activity, Slovenia has proved to be a factor for peace and stability in Europe. As a Member of the United Nations, Slovenia is actively participating in the discussion on reform, including the issue of reform of the Security Council. Our readiness to contribute, in practice, to the work of the Security Council has been manifested by our cooperation in the peacekeeping operations in Albania and in Cyprus. And last but certainly not least, Slovenia has been paying its membership contributions to the regular budget and to the peacekeeping budget in full and on time. As a candidate for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council, we undertake in the event of our election to observe the principles of openness and transparency of action, and will strive to strengthen the ties between the Security Council and rest of the membership of the United Nations. May I in conclusion reiterate again the importance of this session of the General Assembly and of the decisions to be taken. We have arrived at a stage where we may see the crystallization of solutions that will prepare the United Nations to cope with the tasks of the next century. It is our responsibility to formulate these solutions in a sufficiently clear and comprehensive manner, and in that way provide for the viable future of our common Organization. I firmly believe that we, the present generation, will be able to preserve the United Nations as it was created by our forefathers in the turbulent time at the end of the Second World War, as an Organization committed to the principles of peace, cooperation, development and respect for human dignity. ﻿Allow me to congratulate Mr. Udovenko, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, on his election to the post of President of the General Assembly. His election signifies recognition of Ukraine s great prestige in the world, respect for and confidence in the country s foreign policy, and the personal and professional qualities of the new President. We are sincerely grateful to Ambassador Razali Ismail for his remarkable diplomatic talent and efficient performance of the President s functions during the previous session of the General Assembly. First of all, allow me to express our satisfaction with the report presented by the Secretary-General. It is an innovative and specific document devoid of many of the weaknesses typical of similar documents in the past. Turkmenistan supports the Secretary-General s programme to reform the entire United Nations system and the functioning of its bodies — in particular the Secretariat — and to tailor the financial resources of the Organization to its planned activities. We share the conclusion in the report that the reform of the United Nations should be radical and not gradual. However, we believe that the reforms should not be carried out as a revolutionary overhaul, especially when it comes, for example, to the Security Council, which after it becomes more representative should still remain an effectively functioning body that should not supplant the General Assembly. In our view, a rational increase in the number of permanent members of the Security Council primarily calls for the inclusion of such States as Japan and Germany — vested with all corresponding rights and powers — because they can make a constructive input and have greater political objectiveness with respect to the work of the Security Council. There is an issue of special interest and concern for Turkmenistan, as well as for all the countries of the region: the question of Afghanistan. We are glad to note that this question finds an increasingly prominent place in the agenda of the United Nations and in the activities of its agencies, ad hoc bodies and the Security Council. We feel special gratitude for the Secretary-General for his continuing efforts to give a new impetus to the intra- Afghan settlement. In this context, we attach particular significance to the efforts of the Secretary-General s special envoys Mr. Norbert Hall and Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi. Turkmenistan was involved in the implementation of peacemaking programmes in the region by hosting a series of inter-Tajik talks and by organizing, together with the United Nations, a major international conference on humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan. Turkmenistan resolutely supports and will support to the utmost the earliest possible convening of an international conference on Afghanistan with the participation of all its immediate neighbours and, in the future, the holding of conference with the participation of the Powers vested with special international authority and capable of making a practical contribution towards the settlement. The President of Turkmenistan, Mr. Saparmurat Niyazov, maintains constant contact regarding this matter with Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General, and with the leaders of the neighbouring States of Iran, Pakistan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan. Turkmenistan pins great hopes on the forthcoming summit meeting of the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC), to be held in Tehran in December this year, which will give the Muslim world an opportunity to determine at the highest level the guidelines for the resolution of the prolonged Afghan crisis, which has today become a bleeding wound for the Afghan people and an obstacle preventing the region from implementing major economic programmes. Turkmenistan has always believed, and still believes, that conflict situations emerging in the OIC s geographical area should be resolved through its joint efforts with the United Nations. We are happy to be witnessing today a greater display of restraint with regard to simplistic attempts aimed at associating extremism and other negative 23 phenomena with the world of Islam. The Muslim world like any other — for example, Christianity — is multifaceted and diverse. It confronts a whole complex of universal problems of development, and it is being mobilized to overcome conflicts and combat manifestations of uncivil social behaviour. The need for this was emphasized by the Secretary- General in his report to the current session of the General Assembly. While it is a secular and democratic State in Asia, Turkmenistan also considers itself a traditional oriental society that, by virtue of its geopolitical destiny, finds itself at the juncture of two regions, involving it simultaneously in Asian and European international affairs. Against the backdrop of the global energy potential of our State, this factor forms the basis of the United Nations-supported strategy of Turkmenistan s neutrality, which today acquires practical significance for the Organization. All our political efforts today are aimed at creating a favourable atmosphere for economic development, both of the entire region and of every country in particular. At its summit meeting held last May in Ashgabat, the regional Economic Cooperation Organization, which today comprises 10 nations, formulated a strategic programme for the development of transport, energy, pipeline and telecommunication infrastructures. Its implementation not only corresponds to the interests of the participating States but also creates opportunities for the delivery of energy carriers, oil, gas and oil products to international markets in Europe and Asia from the enormously rich deposits in the Caspian Sea basin and the entire Central Asian area. Turkmenistan believes that, in the intensification of international cooperation, the resolution of crises in Central Asia and the use of preventive measures aimed at precluding their recurrence because of conflicting claims of States to ownership rights over natural resources, it is necessary to take into account the global challenges of the twenty-first century, which call for the early development of additional and alternative means for the rational distribution of energy-producing raw materials on world markets. Turkmenistan possesses the world s third largest gas deposits, and it has huge oil reserves and other mineral resources. It is ready to take part in open and broad-based international cooperation in this endeavour. This approach has been confirmed by the recently issued international tender for the development and exploration of oil and gas deposits in the Turkmen zone of the Caspian Sea. We cannot but express our satisfaction at the lifting of artificial barriers to the gas pipeline from Turkmenistan through Iran to Turkey and Europe. We consider this a good sign from the United States, a sign that it is ready to support our efforts to strengthen our sovereignty and independent national economy. In this context, allow me also to express our satisfaction at the fact that the Secretary-General s report and other recent documents of the Organization have at last more clearly defined the notion of Central Asia, which includes many more States as compared with the old central Asian part of the former Soviet Union. During the past several years Turkmenistan has maintained a consistent and principled approach to this issue, emphasizing that the disappearance of the southern borders of the former Soviet State gave rise to the formation of a new region unified by the common purpose of accelerating economic development and strengthening its political and State structures. Today it is inconceivable that Turkmenistan should exist without equally close ties within this region — with Iran, Turkey, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Azerbaijan and other neighbours. We are firmly convinced that the former Soviet “Central Asian 5” have quite logically been transformed into the “Central Asian 10” and that the United Nations and its different agencies should bear in mind this objective reality when formulating their approaches to the region. I believe it is highly important to draw the Assembly s attention to Turkmenistan s sincere commitment to the efforts of the international community to bring about the complete banning of the production and proliferation of all types of weapons of mass destruction. Turkmenistan fully subscribes to the Ottawa process for the elimination of anti-personnel landmines. In 1996 and 1997, together with Canada, Turkmenistan actively participated in international forums in Vienna, Bonn, Oslo, Brussels and Ashgabat, which have been major milestones on the road towards the signing of the treaty banning anti-personnel landmines, which is to be signed in December this year in Ottawa. Coming from a region that has suffered the horrors of this so-called indiscriminate type of weapon, Turkmenistan is convinced that it is a timely and highly relevant treaty. At the end of the twentieth century international relations are characterized by one specific feature: the right of choice that is enjoyed today by an unprecedentedly large number of independent nations and States. This right is becoming an increasingly stable trend strengthened by greater tolerance and patience in international relations. Participation or non-participation in one or another political or economic grouping is no longer considered, nor can it be considered, through the 24 prism of the formula “If you are not with us, you are against us”. Turkmenistan does not object to the idea of the existence of the great Powers regional interests. This is the right of every State. However, we, like our partners in the Non-Aligned Movement, unequivocally object to the existence of zones of unilateral domination. We stand for the principle of open land as well as that of open skies. While building its relations with all States on the basis of the principles of equality and mutual respect, neutral Turkmenistan does not divide its partners into categories of close or remote, big or small, because that runs counter to the political logic of our times. Today, during my meeting with Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary- General of the United Nations, I delivered to him a personal message from the President of Turkmenistan, Mr. Saparmurat Niyazov which, in particular, states, first, that our political philosophy and all our actions are free of any self-serving interests and are primarily aimed at strengthening peace and raising the economic well-being and cultural and educational level of its peoples; secondly, that the United Nations can be fully convinced that Turkmenistan is prepared to give the Organization its maximum possible assistance; and, finally, that the United Nations can count on Turkmenistan in all its initiatives and endeavours in the region.  ﻿I would like to extend my sincere congratulations to the President on his assumption of the office of the presidency of the fifty-second session of the United Nations General Assembly. His election to preside during this critical stage of change and reform in the United Nations system is a reflection of the confidence that the entire membership has in him and his country, Ukraine. I wish him a successful term of office, and assure him of Malawi’s full cooperation. Allow me to pay tribute to last year’s President, His Excellency Mr. Razali Ismail, for the excellent manner in which he handled the recently concluded fifty-first session of the General Assembly. President Razali Ismail brought with him a refreshing sense of purpose in the work of the General Assembly and the United Nations. His punctuality and forthrightness are attributes which will inspire us all as we move forward. My delegation wishes him well in all his future endeavours. Special tribute is due to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, who, within a short period of time, has demonstrated that a revitalized United Nations can work meaningfully towards the full realization of the principles and purposes of the Charter. He can count on Malawi’s support as he continues to discharge his responsibilities. Malawi welcomes the reforms that are taking place within the Organization. The Secretary-General’s commendable efforts in this regard will surely complement the work that has been, and continues to be, undertaken through the various intergovernmental processes. My delegation expresses its satisfaction with the recent adoption of the report of the General Assembly’s High-level Open-ended Working Group on the Strengthening of the United Nations System. By focusing attention on the institutional aspects and 23 operations of the United Nations, the outcome of the Working Group represents an indispensable input to the overall programme of reform. The two-track programme of reform submitted to us by the Secretary General adds, in our view, a comprehensive and useful thrust in the reform and transformation of this world body. My delegation looks forward to participating in the consultations that are necessary to carry through these proposals during this session. We welcome, too, the conclusion of negotiations on An Agenda for Development. We need a strong United Nations in development — a United Nations that is efficient, effective, relevant, able and well-resourced, to respond to the many needs of Member States. Such an Organization, however, cannot exist without meaningful progress in the other areas of reform. We therefore look for some tangible progress in the work of the Working Groups on An Agenda for Peace, on Security Council reform and on the financial situation of the United Nations during the current session. Last year my delegation observed that Malawi did not believe that the Working Groups that we had established were open-ended in time. We continue to hold this view. We need to seize the opportunity for change when the time is ripe. While a time-frame may not be imposed, we believe the time for change for the Organization is now, as we approach the next millennium. Progress in the three remaining Working Groups will make complete the changes that we all seek for the Organization. It is now over three years since the dawn of true democracy in Malawi. The Government of Malawi continues to work towards consolidation of good governance and respect for human rights. We seek to build a Malawi that is democratic and economically viable. Malawi has made commendable efforts to improve the promotion, protection and enforcement of human rights. A number of independent institutions for the protection and promotion of human rights are now in place. Let me also note that Malawi has acceded to the major international human rights instruments. With regard to the Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights aiming at the Abolition of the Death Penalty, the Government has decided to hold national consultations on whether or not the death penalty should be abolished. The initiative, whose modalities are being worked out, has received wide publicity. In this regard, I wish to register Malawi’s appreciation for the offer of assistance by Amnesty International to facilitate these consultations. In the meantime, our President, His Excellency Dr. Bakili Muluzi, has announced a stay until the outcome of the national consultations is known. With respect to the combat of illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, Malawi has acceded to the 1988 Convention, and activities are under way to put in place an effective administrative machinery to coordinate the activities of government departments and civil society. We expect to establish a national commission on drug control as a focal point for internal and international activities, including the promotion of cooperation within the Southern African Development Community (SADC) region in the fight against drug- trafficking. Malawi would greatly appreciate any assistance from the international community, including the United Nations International Drug Control Programme, to improve our own and the region’s ability to deal with the drug problem. We continue to make strides in socio-economic development. Against the background of prudent economic management, we have succeeded in arresting rising inflation and the stagnation in industry and construction as well as the total loss of confidence in the business sector. Although the situation is currently manageable, we are the first to realize that much more needs to be done. Like many other small countries, our economy continues to weather stormy turbulence caused by many exogenous factors. Drought has wrought havoc in the region in recent years. According to the current forecast, this season the region will experience yet another drought. Poverty continues to be the main source of concern. There is no doubt that democracy in Malawi has engendered massive expectations among the people, especially after having lived in an atmosphere of deprivation for decades. The level of expectation has generated insurmountable pressure on the limited resources which the Government has at its disposal. As a developing country, and one of the least developed among them, we are not yet able to mobilize adequate resources to accomplish all our national development programmes. Recurrent drought in the southern Africa region this decade, the weak economic base of the country, which is almost exclusively agricultural, a rather unbalanced social infrastructure, which is partly due to the low literacy rate inherited from the previous regime, and the problem of disease, including HIV/AIDS, pose a serious threat to our nascent democracy. A combination of these domestic as well as other factors of an international character bear the 24 frightening potential of reversing the noble gains we have made over the past three years. Despite these adverse forces, the Government is determined to broaden the economic base of our country. Political stability now obtaining in the country has created a conducive atmosphere for foreign investment. Malawi has abolished all retrogressive legislation which hindered both domestic and foreign investment. The economy has been liberalized, and a number of incentives have been introduced for potential investors. Measures include a comprehensive privatization programme. In a further effort to tackle the root cause of poverty in my country, our Government has instituted measures which seek to empower the common person, including youth, and women. Free primary education was introduced in 1994 to develop our human resources. This is coupled with the provision of free tuition at secondary school for the girl child. The aim of the Malawi Government is to double the average literacy rate by 1999. The efforts and impact of globalization are well-known to us all. Malawi cannot go it alone in the implementation of its development programmes. International cooperation among all nations in all sectors of human endeavour is no longer an option, but necessary for the very existence and survival of humankind. The truth of this proposition is very apparent and clear today, particularly in the areas of environment, development and international peace and security. We in Malawi recognize the importance of protecting the environment for the sustainable livelihood of all the people. The Government of Malawi participated in the nineteenth special session of the General Assembly, devoted to the overall review and appraisal of the implementation of Agenda 21, held in this very Hall from 23 to 27 June 1997. We trust that having candidly taken stock of the state of implementation of Agenda 21, and taking into account the shortfall at mid-decade, the international community will now redouble its efforts to fulfil its commitments in the next five years and beyond. The common and differentiated responsibilities that were agreed upon at the Earth Summit regarding the protection and preservation of the environment in order to achieve sustainable development were reaffirmed and accentuated, once again underscoring the importance of international cooperation. We will play our part in the protection of the environment for the benefit of present and future generations. The critical socio-economic situation of Africa continues to be an area of priority concern to us. More than one year after the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative on Africa, the situation still leaves something to be desired — though there are, of course, some hopeful signs for improvement. We find gratification in the fact that African ownership of African development is becoming a reality. We look forward to the consolidation of a global partnership for Africa. Malawi appreciates the assistance that it receives from the donor community. There is absolutely no doubt that increased international assistance and initiatives for debt relief or cancellation, increased official development assistance to meet agreed targets, private capital flows, increased foreign direct investment, and improved terms of trade would play a catalytic role in Africa’s efforts to achieve economic development. The remarkable progress achieved in the areas of regional integration and South- South cooperation gives us hope. Africa is indeed not a hopeless case. A genuine partnership in development and finance is, therefore, imperative. The demise of the cold war rekindled all our aspirations for lasting global peace and prosperity. The highly symbolic tumbling down of the Berlin Wall heightened expectations for a peace dividend. Unfortunately, the situation has not improved. Today, the United Nations continues to utilize most of its resources in managing or containing conflicts of varying origins and intensity. The role of the Organization in the maintenance of international peace and security has become more relevant than before. The situations in Angola, Burundi, the Republic of the Congo, the Great Lakes Region, Sierra Leone, Western Sahara, Afghanistan, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Middle East, among many others, continue to occupy the work of this Organization. It certainly should be possible to resolve many of these problems that beset the world so that the United Nations can rechannel its efforts towards promoting the most refreshing aspects of the human experience. And there are many examples where the human spirit has triumphed over forces of doom and despair. Developments in Liberia and in the Democratic Republic of the Congo are among the most recent examples. We congratulate the people of Liberia on choosing the way of peace. The role played by the United Nations Observer Mission in Liberia (UNOMIL), by the Economic Community of West African States Monitoring Group, and by other international observers in the Liberian peace and electoral processes once again 25 demonstrates that a global partnership for the maintenance of international peace and security can succeed and is perhaps the only way forward. Democracy, transparent and accountable governance and the protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms are necessary for successful people- centred development to take place in our countries. It is unfortunate, though, that there are some around us today who believe that they can continue to deprive their own people of their birth rights and freedoms. We deeply regret that in Sierra Leone a military junta that usurped power from a democratically elected Government is still holding on, in spite of the international community’s opposition. Malawi calls upon the junta to hand over power to the democratically elected Government and President Kabbah so that the people of Sierra Leone can experience the peace that has eluded them for so long. The situation in Burundi continues to be as depressing as it was last year. We remain convinced that there is no alternative to freedom and democracy. We strongly urge the people of Burundi to set aside their differences and negotiate so that they may put in place a Government that would bring that country once again to normalcy. My Government has followed closely developments in the painstaking peace process for Angola. We have admired the magnanimity of the Government of Angola in fulfilling its obligations under the Lusaka Protocol and related agreements. We on the other hand regret the continued intransigence of Dr. Jonas Savimbi and his National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA). While supporting wholeheartedly the Security Council resolutions on the situation in Angola, we make an earnest appeal to the UNITA leadership to fulfil its obligations in the peace process without further delay so that the people of Angola and the entire southern African region may realize their desire for a peaceful and prosperous future. We similarly regret the recent developments in the Republic of the Congo. We appeal to all the major players in this senseless struggle to exercise restraint and amicably resolve their differences. The Congolese people definitely deserve much better. We note with growing concern the apparent lack of meaningful progress in the implementation of the settlement plan for Western Sahara. Malawi applauds the indefatigable efforts of the United Nations in its search for a lasting solution to Western Sahara. It is our sincere hope that the recent appointment by the Secretary-General of Mr. James Baker as his Personal Envoy for Western Sahara will help in the resolution of that problem. We call upon the main actors to honour their obligations without further delay. My delegation is gravely concerned about developments in the Middle East. A few years back, we hailed the Middle East peace process as having acquired irreversible momentum. Malawi strongly believes that there is no alternative to the peace process launched in Madrid on 10 October 1991; there is no cogent alternative to this process for genuine peace and stability in the Middle East. However, recent developments have obviously shown that any provocative moves by any of the parties concerned will not help the process. We appeal for the utmost restraint and the quick resumption of negotiations. My Government is similarly pleased to note that the two Governments on the Korean peninsula are working together, although in a limited sense. It is our hope that this is a starting point from which a lasting solution to the existing tensions on the peninsula will be realized. In recent years the world has made major strides in the field of disarmament. The adoption last year of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty was indeed a major breakthrough for all peace-loving nations. For Malawi, however, the recent adoption of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on Their Destruction stands out as most significant. Our resolve to root out an evil that has adversely affected the lives of many in the world shall remain undeterred. The support garnered for the Convention within a short period of time is a clear sign of what human beings can achieve when working together for a common goal. We welcome the Convention and look forward to its universal acceptance. The United Nations today stands at the threshold of a new millennium. We pray that it continues to play its rightful role in the many issues that occupy us all in our everyday life. As we approach the twenty-first century, the relevance of the United Nations in enhancing international cooperation in all areas of human endeavour is, to us, no longer a matter of doubt but reality. We believe that the reforms we all desire will harness the gains already made in the area of international cooperation. We all seek a United Nations that responds effectively and efficiently to the needs of all people. Let me reaffirm the commitment of the Government and the people of Malawi to the noble goals and ideals of 26 the United Nations, an institution that continues to make a difference for humankind. We will continue to make our modest contribution to this intergovernmental process, for which we find no credible or viable alternative to its service to “We the peoples of the United Nations”.   ﻿Mr. President, allow me sincerely to congratulate you, a representative of friendly Ukraine, on your election to this responsible and honoured post. We are confident that under your Presidency, the General Assembly will be able to achieve significant results. In just a little over 800 days, mankind will enter upon the twenty-first century. From a historical point of view, this is indeed no more than a sprinter’s lap, and thus the need to look at what lies ahead, at what awaits us, would appear quite natural. One year ago, in speaking from this rostrum, I spoke about the emerging process of a transition to a multipolar world order. The developments of the past year support that. There is a growing diversity in the political, economic and cultural development of countries. New centres of economic and political influence in the world are shaping up, coupled, at the same time, with increased intermeshing of the interests of different States and peoples. The horizons opening up to the international community in the twenty-first century are making new demands. These are the assertion of the ideals of interdependency and partnership in inter-State relations; the prevention of the emergence of new dividing lines or exclusive bloc structures; and strict adherence by all to the principles and rules of international law. As a separate issue, I should like to cite not only the creation of conditions for economic and social progress of all countries, but also the maintenance of environmental balance. There is also a need to mention that the transition from a confrontational bipolar world to a multipolar system per se would not provide a solution to these 17 problems. Furthermore, realistically minded people realize that although we are moving farther away from the simplistic stereotypes of the ideological confrontation era, the number of existing risks and threats in the world is not decreasing. Regional conflicts continue to be one of the major sources of instability on the global level; they should not be allowed to continue into the twenty-first century. How can this be achieved? A characteristic of our days is the increasing number of intra-State problems — conflicts of an ethnic rather than social nature. There are many multinational States in the world today, and we support the initiatives designed to prevent their forcible disintegration. The formula for settling such conflicts in today’s world — and, of course, in the twenty-first century — can and must combine the need to preserve the territorial integrity of those States with the provision of the maximum possible number of rights to their national minorities. To abandon any of the principles of this two-track formula would result not only in the continuation but in the dangerous escalation of such conflict situations. Likewise, I wish to draw the Assembly’s particular attention to a dangerous aspect of regional conflicts: their ability to trigger terrorist waves and spread them far and wide beyond the borders of the actual conflict zone. For example, many of the militants who launched a bloody campaign of terror in a number of countries emerged out of the ongoing armed conflict that still rages in Afghanistan. We strongly support the combat against terrorism, whatever trappings it may don, be it in Ireland or in Israel. Today, we will not be able to prevail in this fight without all States pooling their efforts to combat this greatest of evils. While we oppose the backing of terrorism in any form by any Government, we believe that we cannot stigmatize individual Member States forever as international rogues, irrespective of changes in their policies, simply because of their suspected links to terrorists. In the present-day world, no country can hold a monopoly on any kind of conflict-resolution effort. This fully applies as well to the long-standing conflict in the Middle East, where the settlement process has been stalemated. As the saying goes, “it takes two hands to applaud”. Broad-based international efforts are required to undo the taut Middle East knot. Russia, as one of the co- sponsors of the peace process launched in 1991 in Madrid, is prepared actively to cooperate actively with all to attain this goal. For many years, so too has the Cyprus issue been awaiting the effective international cooperation needed for its resolution. A synergy of efforts would provide the shortest cut to the resolution of both long-standing and of relatively new conflicts. But our stance by no means implies — and I wish to emphasize this — that any individual country that has influence in a zone of conflict or that can exert it over conflicting parties should not make active use of its own potential. It must do so, however, without putting up a high fence around itself to ward off others. I should like in this connection to draw the Assembly’s attention to Russia’s peacekeeping efforts in the Commonwealth of Independent States region. First of all, as concerns Tajikistan, Russia is doing a great deal since we are equipped with the particular tools needed to do the job, in part for historical reasons. Our efforts have proved rather effective. Recently in Moscow an agreement was signed that put an end to the armed strife between the Government and the opposition in that country. The return to Dushanbe of Mr. Nuri, the opposition leader, shows that the agreement is already working. Nevertheless, we want only our fair share of the deal. We note with satisfaction that the attitudes of Russia and the United Nations towards the parameters of the operation in Tajikistan are in concurrence, based on the close cooperation between the United Nations Observer Mission, the collective Commonwealth of Independent States peacekeeping force, and the contingent of Russian border troops. We welcome the intention of the United Nations to expand the mandate of its observers and to increase their number. Nagorny Karabakh provides yet another example. Acting on its own, Russia has done a great deal to stabilize the situation in the region. But I believe that we have quite productively cooperated with the United States and France, which, jointly with Russia, are acting as co- chairmen of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe’s Minsk process to settle the Nagorny Karabakh conflict. The Georgian-Abkhaz conflict offers a similar example. I should now like to say a few words about peacekeeping as a whole. Over the last few years, a trend has been observed towards its decentralization. Naturally, there are objective reasons for this: the financial constraints placed on the United Nations, and the increase 18 in the number of regional organizations working, inter alia, in peacekeeping. We see nothing wrong with such decentralization. However, it is extremely important that peacekeeping activities, whatever their sponsorship, should rely first and foremost on the underlying principles developed within the United Nations framework. We need here to be extremely cautious in dealing with peacekeeping activities. We believe that actions involving force should be carried out solely when authorized by the Security Council and under its direct supervision, as provided for in the Charter of the United Nations. As we move towards a multipolar world in the twenty- first century, it is essential to create conditions that will bring stability to a new world order. To that end, work must be completed to demolish the hurdles of the past and, above all, the legacy of the massive, decades-long arms race. We are moving together along this path, and we are determined to proceed further. Together with the United States, we have been steadily reducing our national strategic arsenals. President Yeltsin of Russia and President Clinton of the United States have reached an understanding on the basic parameters for agreement in this area. On the agenda now are systematic measures for a reduction in the nuclear arsenals of all the nuclear Powers. But let us be perfectly clear here: the stability of a multipolar world cannot be ensured simply by ending the nuclear-arms race of the past. It is also essential to have guarantees against the re-emergence of that arms race on a new basis, and here I have in mind the desire of individual countries to acquire nuclear weapons. This once again proves the need for urgent measures to relieve tensions in the relations between India and Pakistan. Hence the essential need for the entire international community to give a universal dimension to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Those few countries that have so far remained outside the Treaty must, in our view, come to grips with their responsibility. They must realize that their own security is an integral part of global security, and they must assume those obligations to which over 180 States have already committed themselves as parties to the Treaty. The entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear- Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) on a global scale, as well as the forthcoming talks to ban the production of weapon-grade fissile materials, figures likewise among those badly needed steps intended to impart stability to global security in the twenty-first century. The implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction is getting under way. We consider this document as one of the major instruments designed to eliminate one of the weapons of mass destruction subject to the greatest proliferation. We have been working together with the deputies of the State Duma to ratify the Convention, and we look forward to the early, successful completion of those efforts. But even now it is conventional weaponry that is killing people in local conflicts, often in situations where hostilities have already stopped. In this connection, we are fully aware of the humanitarian dimension of the problem of landmines. We think that the elimination of the threat of landmines to people, especially to civilian populations, is long overdue. We advocate active, phased efforts and negotiations to resolve it. Stability on a global or regional level is impossible without the establishment of security systems. We have made headway in this direction on the European continent. We feel confident that only a universal organization which brings together all the members of the European family of nations can serve as a foundation for a genuinely durable security system in Europe in the twenty-first century. I am talking here about the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). It is first and foremost in the frame of that forum that it is possible to seek agreement with a view to meeting the new and diverse challenges, which are not necessarily of a military and political nature. A beneficial effect on the improvement of the European climate has already been exerted by the Founding Act on Mutual Relations, Cooperation and Security between the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Russian Federation, which was born out of the agonizing quest for compromise. This document will have broad international resonance and will doubtless play an essential role in European politics. Of course, the signing of that document has not changed our negative view of NATO’s enlargement, which, on the one hand, totally ignores current realities and, on the other, is fraught with the risk of creating new dividing lines. 19 I must mention yet another contribution to the strengthening of good-neighbourly relations in Europe. I am referring to the agreements signed recently by Russia, Ukraine and Belarus that have allowed our three countries to take major steps forward in developing mutually beneficial, equitable relations which have strengthened stability in the region. Russia has an interest in the security and stability of its Baltic neighbours and is ready to guarantee their security. Such guarantees could be provided in the form of our commitment backed by an agreement on good- neighbourly relations between Russia and the Baltic States. Such an agreement could become a kind of pact on regional security and stability. The Asia-Pacific dimension is also of great significance to us. We are convinced that the Russian- Chinese agreements on borders and military détente in the frontier zone, which were also signed by Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan, will become a long-term factor for stability in that vast region. Russia also holds a number of other Asian countries — including India, Japan and the States of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) — among its priority partners. At the same time, our future in the twenty-first century at both the global and the regional levels depends directly on whether the international community will be able to stop and reverse the economic impoverishment of a great number of the Member States of the United Nations. A central role in resolving the most important tasks facing all the countries of the world today belongs to the United Nations. Established over half a century ago, the Organization in general has succeeded in passing the durability test, traversed the thorny road of the bloc-confrontation era, survived both the ice-age period and the thaw in international relations. But today this could be viewed as axiomatic — the United Nations needs a rational renovation, referred to by virtually all the speakers in this debate. The substantive report of Secretary-General Kofi Annan gives clear proof of this need. Today, figuratively speaking, the image of this Organization in the twenty-first century is being shaped. It is our strong conviction that the priority objective of the Organization’s reform is to enhance the usefulness of the United Nations. Naturally, it is impossible to reform the United Nations in order to increase its effectiveness without overcoming the financial problems. We must note that the financial problems of the United Nations have unfortunately become chronic. It must therefore be emphasized that the responsibility for the financial health of the United Nations is borne by all Member States and that they must all pay their dues properly. We are also in favour of expanding the membership of the Security Council. A decision to that effect is long overdue. But this expansion should not render our Organization less efficient. The reform of the United Nations will take place against the background of the ever increasing role of regional organizations. This is a fully logical process. At the same time, we are convinced that the special leading role of the United Nations among all other universally recognized international organizations must be preserved. We see the United Nations in the twenty-first century as a highly efficient Organization, free from bureaucratic constraints, and as a proactive Organization capable of swiftly responding to the challenges of the contemporary world. I began my remarks by encouraging concerted action by the international community to concentrate on current problems and on the prospects for the coming century. And I shall conclude by citing a well-known saying: “Pessimists are no more than casual observers, it is the optimists who can change the world”. We are optimists, and we believe that the United Nations will be able to play a positive role in the ongoing evolution of the international community. ﻿I am honoured to extend to you, Sir, on behalf of the Government and the people of Ecuador, warm congratulations on your election to preside over this session of the General Assembly. I am sure that your efforts will contribute to the advancement of the activities of our Organization. You may rely on the constant and resolute cooperation of Ecuador. I should like to speak of several matters of interest to the international community that the United Nations has incorporated into its working agenda. My country follows with interest their development within the Organization and will act on the basis of the principles that guide Ecuador’s foreign policy. Ecuador believes that the search for general and complete global disarmament is a goal that our Organization should pursue indefatigably. This is not a utopian ideal but, rather, a constant objective that requires the active participation of all States within a global ethical context. True to this principle, my country is a party to all international and regional instruments related to disarmament. The nations of the world have welcomed the end of the cold war and the attendant reduction of the risk of nuclear holocaust. Nevertheless, Ecuador views with apprehension the persistence of nuclear-weapon- development programmes and the continued existence of large atomic arsenals and the risks they pose for the peace and well-being of all. The international community cannot relax its guard and cease to insist on the elimination of such means of massive and indiscriminate destruction. This conviction has led Ecuador to lend its determined support to the global non-proliferation regimen and to the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones. Thus, at the last session of the General Assembly, Ecuador was a sponsor of the resolution calling for the establishment of a nuclear- weapon-free zone in the southern hemisphere and adjacent areas. Furthermore, Ecuador supports the work of the Conference on Disarmament in drawing up a draft text for a convention on the control of fissionable material, which is to be submitted to the General Assembly, and fully agrees with the working document submitted by members of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries concerning the universal nature of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. With regard to weapons of mass destruction, disarmament has particular significance for the whole of the international community. However, we cannot overlook the fact that the subject of conventional disarmament is equally sensitive and that it is an issue that must attract the full and determined attention of the United Nations. For this reason, Ecuador welcomes the Disarmament Commission’s decision to include in its agenda an item on guidelines for control, limitation and disarmament in connection with conventional weapons, with special attention to the consolidation of peace within the context of General Assembly resolution 51/45 N. Ecuador also supports the convening in 1999 of the fourth special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament, in accordance with the decision taken at the Assembly’s last session. My country is especially interested in including in the agenda of that special session such relevant issues as the effective reduction of conventional forces and weapons, the relationship between disarmament and development, and confidence- building measures among States. Because of their humanitarian cost, I must refer to a specific type of conventional weapon: anti-personnel landmines. Ecuador is a contracting party to several international agreements that ban and restrict the use of such weapons, and we urge all countries, whether signatories to those treaties or not, to observe them and scrupulously respect their terms. My country is convinced that the community of States must persist in its efforts to reach agreement on the total prohibition of the use, production, stockpiling, and transfer of anti-personnel landmines. Ecuador thus supports the Ottawa process, which is to conclude in December 1997 with the signing of a binding agreement on a total ban on anti-personnel landmines. Humankind has painfully come to realize that international peace and security cannot be based on atomic equilibrium, arms races or mistrust and mutual suspicion. On the contrary, genuine peace must be based on respect for the rule of law, on the acceptance of the solidarity and interdependence of all States and on the common desire to move dynamically forward towards the solution of the critical problems of dire poverty, disease, unemployment, illiteracy and economic and social inequality among peoples and nations. In order to make progress, we must recognize and live by universal ethical principles and seek peaceful solutions to our multilateral and bilateral problems through peaceful processes, through dialogue and reconciliation. The countries of Latin America, and Ecuador in particular, are concerned by the fact that economic development is not accompanied by social development. It is ironic that in an ever wealthier world, development-cooperation resources have fallen 20 per cent in real terms in recent years. How, then, can the international community fulfil the commitments entered into at the World Summit for Social Development? We, the developing countries, assume our responsibility in fighting poverty, providing better health and education to our people, reinforcing our democracies and consolidating our institutions. However, it is essential that international cooperation for development be continued, since this will result in a more just, stable and peaceful world. There is no doubt that in recent years the world has changed dramatically. We have moved from an international society where political and military confrontation weighed heavily on relations to a system where cooperation and dialogue among the great Powers have gradually eased the fear of a nuclear holocaust. In this new environment of international relations, in which economic questions have become global in nature, the United Nations must also modify some of its previous patterns of conduct and management. What do we want from the United Nations in the twenty-first century? The Secretary-General has submitted a comprehensive programme for the reform of the United Nations system, a programme that must be profoundly and carefully analysed by all Member States, and Ecuador will actively participate in the debate on this subject. It must be pointed out that this world body must confront the great challenges to mankind, such as the promotion of economic and social development along with the needed preservation of the environment; the maintenance of international peace and harmony; the achievement of total and complete disarmament; the promotion of human rights; and the strengthening of cooperation among all nations to eradicate poverty. 2 Since its establishment, the United Nations has fulfilled a number of the purposes for which it was created. It is true that the Organization, for various reasons largely attributable to Member States themselves, has not fulfilled some of the high expectations of the international community. It is worth noting that one of the most accurate phrases ever uttered in this forum recognizes that the United Nations is exactly what its Members want it to be. The successes and failures of the Organization are the successes and failures of the States that make it up. I do not wish to start listing past errors, but we should not forget them, because they can serve as useful lessons. We must above all be aware that today there are new challenges, and that we must look ahead and face them. We must design an Organization which, through practical mechanisms, leaves rhetoric aside and assumes a dynamic role in the solution of world problems. This will require substantial reform of the working methods of the United Nations. Furthermore, it will require a new attitude by Member States in order to create a just and equitable international society based on the authentic, democratically expressed will of the international community. For the Organization to respond more effectively to the challenges now facing the international community, these reforms should not be restricted to a single sector within the institutional structure. Let me mention the reform of one of the most important organs of the United Nations: the Security Council. Ecuador attaches particular importance to the reform of that body as part of the strengthening of the United Nations. We believe that the ultimate objective of these efforts must be to develop a more democratic, transparent and truly representative working system for the Council. The reform of the Security Council must not be limited to a mere discussion of the number of members or of how many delegations should represent each region — although here we believe that the number of Security Council members must be increased in the light of the new world realities, to obtain a more significant presence of developing countries in accordance with equitable geographical distribution. We also believe that real reform of the Security Council should aim above all at ensuring that decision-making machinery and processes have the transparency, effectiveness and pluralism that must characterize every democratic institution. This includes, among other specific measures, the limitation of the veto power of the Council's permanent members, and timelier and more effective action to prevent international conflicts at the request of any State Member of the Organization. As we approach the end of the United Nations Decade of International Law, I would like to reaffirm our hope that its objectives will be fully met, particularly those relating to the promotion of and respect for the principles of international law and to the broadest possible recourse to ways and means for the peaceful settlement of disputes between States. We know that complex international disputes cannot be settled solely by legal mechanisms, but it is no less true that any settlement must be based on legal instruments and must follow formal procedures. An essential element of Ecuador's international policy is the search for a just and permanent solution to the Ecuador-Peru territorial issue. With the valuable help of Argentina, Brazil, Chile and the United States as guarantor countries, talks between Ecuador and Peru are currently under way in Brasilia on the remaining impasses that affect our common border, in accordance with the commitment of both countries to find a peaceful and final solution to these issues. Ecuador will continue to participate in these talks, motivated by a true spirit of peace, because we desire a global, final, honourable and realistic solution that reflects the legitimate expectations of our people, which, together with the other peoples of the Americas, are seeking to create a future of mutual benefit and constructive and peaceful cooperation. The efforts of the Ecuadorian and Peruvian peoples are aimed at finding a definitive solution to this dispute. International interest in the progress of the Brasilia talks and the immense prospects that would open for both countries in the new millennium are factors that should encourage our Governments to make all efforts necessary to settle this age-old historical controversy, and thus respond to the just aspirations to peace and development that we all share. Our country longs for peace and wants peace; it does not want war. We are convinced that there is no victory in a war, only different degrees of defeat owing to the incalculable consequences that can affect the political, moral, social and economic life of our countries. The Charter of the United Nations states that world security is not limited to the significant issue of the prevention and settlement of violent conflicts. A safer world is also a world where general prosperity 3 eliminates the causes of most conflict and human suffering. The United Nations should continue to be a forum for the discussion of critical issues concerning the search for the economic development of more than three quarters of the world's population. To be sure, Ecuador is aware that economic growth per se is not enough to generate adequate social justice and an equitable distribution of income. My Government has designed programmes and plans aimed at covering the needs of the marginal populations of Ecuador. With the assistance of the World Bank and the United Nations Development Programme, we have established a national social development plan that includes government action in line with the commitments assumed by the international community during the World Summit for Social Development. The socially oriented philosophy of my Government leads me to join those who suggest that the eradication of poverty throughout the world should be the main goal of the international community's coordinated efforts in the coming years. The globalization of the economy cannot be limited to the use of cheap labour in the developing world, the proliferation of profitable investments and the exploitation of certain markets. It should also aim at providing coordinated and systematic assistance to immense populations whose only experience of globalization has been their eternal poverty and frustration. Since time immemorial, the inhabitants of Ecuador have had special devotion to nature. My country, which has one the greatest biodiversity reserves in the world, has a deep sense of respect for nature and an awareness of its value, which are deeply rooted in our traditional culture. Ecuadorian indigenous communities, for example, possess ancestral knowledge concerning the rational management of resources and the preservation of the ecosystem. Ecuador is aware of the difficult dilemma faced by every society when it comes to choosing between economic progress and the preservation of the environment. Given the basic value that the natural environment has for the Ecuadorian people, we have dedicated all our efforts to preventing, or at least limiting to the greatest extent possible, the degree of destruction of nature caused by economic progress. As it did during the special session of the General Assembly held last June, my Government would like to reiterate its strong commitment to the implementation of Agenda 21 and to reaching the Agenda's goals of sustainable development. The efforts of developing nations will be successful only if they can secure the effective support of developed countries through compliance with the commitments assumed at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, the Rio summit. There can be no universal environmental preservation without a genuine change in the unsustainable consumption patterns that bring about the increasing deterioration of the global environment, without adequate financial assistance for development in percentages proportional to gross domestic product, and without adequate facilities to access modern technologies. The establishment of new trade and financial regimes and the urgent need to restructure our economies give rise to enormous challenges for developing countries. We believe that we should redouble our efforts in order to meet the requirements of globalization, in such a way that our nations can also benefit from the new international economic vigour. Unlike developed countries, for developing countries the globalization process is not only a way to reactivate productive growth, maintain an upward trend in stock market indicators or increase business profits. For developing countries, the economic aspect of the so-called globalization should be an opportunity to accelerate the sustainable development of their peoples, particularly with regard to social issues. It should be recalled that developing countries have made spectacular efforts to adjust to the new economic realities. Trade adjustment and liberalization programmes have had strong short-term impacts in significant sectors of our society. Several States have adopted severe economic measures, hoping that in the end they will have positive results for all. However, we cannot help but feel that this attitude contrasts with the behaviour of some industrialized countries. In trade matters, for example, although some developed nations insist on the liberalization of trade, they persist in keeping various barriers against trade flows originating in the South. We are not opposed to the moderate liberalization of markets regulated by international trade in order to prevent negative effects on sensitive sectors of local economies, but we are opposed to those who preach freedom of trade for some and then systematically avoid it for themselves as they 4 see fit. Developing countries demand a fair, equitable and transparent environment for international trade that will allow us to reap the benefits of economic globalization. On the other hand, many developed countries with influence in financial decision-taking circles maintain a purely economic perspective — as opposed to a wider social vision — of the financial difficulties affecting the developing world. They continue to associate a nation's economic health with the vigour of its macroeconomic indicators alone. In fact, no nation can have a healthy economy if a significant sector of its population lives in extreme poverty or if internal growth indicators do not guarantee a sustainable and continued development in the future. Foreign debt still weighs heavily on my country and prevents us from reaching the objectives of sustained economic and social development and environmental protection. With the same constructive spirit as that which guides our trade policies, we are convinced that the institutions of the international financial system should support developing countries' efforts to facilitate their economic advancement and fulfil the commitments of the Earth Summit. International trade and finance, disarmament and security, environment and development are issues that cannot be considered separately from one another. We know that all the issues in the international agenda are interrelated and we address them separately just for convenience of consideration. In any case, we must never lose sight of the principle of globality and interrelation in the international agenda, or we may run the risk of having an utterly limited historical perspective and objectivity. Accordingly, Ecuador shares the view of the United Nations Secretary-General on the importance of human rights in the modern world and that all relevant programmes implemented by the Organization must be fully integrated within the scope of activities of the United Nations. In the case of Ecuador, I am pleased to inform the Assembly that one of the principles of my Administration is to enforce a policy of absolute respect for human rights. I have the ethical conviction that modern civilized life is impossible without individual guarantees and tolerance for diverging opinions. The Ecuadorian State is committed to following this line of conduct and to promoting and protecting all human, civil, cultural, economic, political and social rights, including the right to development. We are also committed to encouraging inquiry procedures in cases of violations of such rights and to punishing those found liable for them. The battle against corruption is one of the essential objectives of the National Government in order to ensure that government institutions can recover their respectability and the trust which our people is entitled to place in them. I wish to refer to a specific aspect related to the human rights issue: the establishment of an international criminal court to punish the most serious crimes, such as genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. Ecuador strongly supports this initiative. We share the view that this court should be established by international convention. We therefore urge all States to show the necessary political will to overcome the remaining technical difficulties in order to convene the conference of plenipotentiaries charged with approving the court's statutes. To conclude, as President of the Republic of Ecuador, I have the pleasure to bring the message of friendship and brotherhood of the Ecuadorian people to this forum, in which all the nations of the world are represented. Our people has consolidated its democracy and balanced its economy and is moving boldly forward to build its future. It is a people that sincerely aspires to ensuring that international mechanisms understand the realities of developing countries. Above all, at this moment in our history, in the face of any potential natural disaster, such as the El Niño phenomenon, we would like to count on the timely, effective and direct cooperation of the United Nations and the various relevant international institutions. I wish to extend once again our message of friendship and fraternity, as well as my country's commitment to the lofty ideals that guide the efforts of the United Nations in the international sphere.﻿At the outset I should like to convey to you, Sir, the warm congratulations of the Government of Gabon and of my delegation on your outstanding election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session. I should also like to congratulate the other members of the Bureau. In selecting you, Mr. President, our Assembly acknowledged your country’s role in world politics and, above all, your personal qualities, which augur well for the success of this session. I am indeed convinced that under your guidance our work will be directed towards continuing our discussions in greater depth, taking common positions on important issues and adopting resolutions with the broadest possible consensus. 14 I should like to express our appreciation to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Razali, for the excellent work he did during his presidency. This is also the first opportunity I have had to express my heartfelt congratulations to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, on his election as head of our Organization. I assure him of Gabon’s full support for all the efforts he will need to make to ensure the success of the action he takes in the service of the United Nations. It is often said that the international context has changed, that the fields of activity of the States that we represent are being subjected to attacks on all sides as science and technology progress. The globalization of our economies, based on the proclaimed virtues of liberalism, has not yet yielded all that it could. The new world order that we have so long hoped for has not yet arrived, because so many contradictions are woven into the fabric of international relations. Yet no one can fail to see that it represents both the matrix and the support essential to carrying out the reform of the United Nations so that it can better serve peace among nations and the development of their peoples. I should like first to speak about peace, the chief wealth of nations, and I shall do so, of course, in the light of our own experience. In Gabon our understanding of peace underlies all the political developments we have experienced and are still experiencing today. The organization of successive local, legislative and senatorial elections in a calm political and social context at the end of 1996 and early this year provided proof of the fundamental role of the democratic legitimacy sorely needed today for the exercise of political power. This same perception underlies all the activities of which we are the beneficiaries and which have made Gabon, through the personal presence of its President, Omar Bongo, a country that enjoys the great friendship and trust of other members of the international community, especially its neighbours. In fact, Gabon has contributed in a substantial and significant manner to easing the tension in many parts of Africa. Gabon, together with Chad, Burkina Faso, Senegal and Mali, sent almost 300 soldiers as part of an African peacekeeping force to restore institutional stability in the Central African Republic. On behalf of my country I should like to pay tribute to the Inter-African Mission to Monitor the Implementation of the Bangui Agreements, established by the Security Council. Given the very disturbing situation in Congo (Brazzavile), and at the request of the Congolese parties, Gabon agreed to take charge of the international mediation committee, under the leadership of His Excellency El Hadj Omar Bongo, assisted by the joint United Nations/Organization of African Unity Special Representative, Ambassador Mohamed Sahnoun. A similar request had already been made to President Bongo by our Congolese brothers during earlier crises, in 1992 and 1993. The current crisis, which erupted in early July 1997, is the longest and the most bloody — the official death toll is 4,000 to 5,000 — and the most complex. Despite the many obstacles that this mediation effort is encountering, Gabon is doing its utmost to find a positive solution to this conflict. It is essentially a political and internal conflict, but it must be clear to everyone that the situation could drift out of control, with repercussions at the subregional and international levels. Even so, as the French writer Beaumarchais said, “As success becomes more difficult to achieve, the need for action becomes more pressing.” In this connection, I am pleased to note the encouraging reaction of the international community in general, and more specifically, of the European Union and France, which have voiced their support and renewed their expression of trust in international mediation and in the Head of State of Gabon, and have urged him to continue his efforts. To give the Assembly an idea of what has been done, I would just like briefly to mention that President Bongo has proposed, on the one hand, a ceasefire agreement and, on the other, a political agreement to cover the transitional period from now until the presidential elections. The draft political agreement is the fifth one proposed since the negotiations began. It is based on the idea of power-sharing and the balanced participation of all 15 political forces in terms of holding power during the transitional period. The breakdown is as follows. Mr. Lissouba will remain as President of the Republic and Head of State. To counterbalance this, as it were, a Prime Minister, the Head of Government, will be appointed by the President from among the members of the Opposition. In addition, three Vice-Presidents of the Republic are to be appointed by the Head of State. We were unable to finalize this draft agreement during the discussions. Things started to happen quickly in Brazzaville: fighting continued; Mr. Kolelas, the Mayor of Brazzaville, who had been heading the national mediation efforts, was appointed Prime Minister; and a Government was set up. Of course, all this has meant that negotiations are on hold. Against this background of uncertainty, President Bongo invited nine Heads of State of Central and Western Africa to a special meeting on the Congo which was held in Libreville on 14 and 15 September 1997. President Lissouba was unable to join his colleagues but he sent his Prime Minister, Mr. Kolelas. The Libreville summit reaffirmed support for international mediation efforts led by President Bongo. It also made an urgent appeal to the warring factions to stop fighting and resolutely to continue with negotiations to try and find a political settlement to the crisis. So far, I have to say, the appeal has not met with the reaction on the ground we had hoped for. But we are still hopeful that discussions will soon be resumed, for this is the only way we are going to find a lasting and constructive settlement. Faced with this situation, what have we done here in the United Nations? I should remind the Assembly that very soon after international mediation began, the President of the Republic of Gabon called for a commitment from the international community in terms of deploying an international force to separate the warring factions in Congo (Brazzaville). Several African countries in a commendable upsurge of solidarity, responded favourably, expressing their willingness to provide troops for the international force. President Bongo brought the matter before the Security Council, which said it accepted the principle, but which imposed various conditions that, when analysed, leave one with the impression that if they were met there would be practically no point in sending the force. Time is passing. Time is of the essence. Congolese people are still dying; others are fleeing their country; and thousands more are still wandering, distraught and desperate, in the forests of the Congo, seeking makeshift shelter. Can we really continue calmly to sit in Manhattan or in the offices of our capitals and discuss what is going on? We know that in the recent past in other parts of the world the same cunning preventive measures — I was going to say the same procrastination — did not prevail. No, we must do something for the Congolese people. They are citizens of the world, our world, as well. I must emphasize this: the impact of armed conflicts is so great that it is more necessary than ever to stress specific measures to prevent them. For developing countries, like mine, that cannot and must not afford the luxury of high military expenditure, the maintenance of international peace and security must be provided for “upstream” on the basis of preventive measures. It is because we believe deeply in this principle that the States in our subregion, Members of the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa have been cooperating and taking action since 1992 to strengthen mutual trust and security at the subregional level. These contacts have led, inter alia, to the signing in Yaoundé in July 1996, by virtually all the members of this Committee — except one — of a non-aggression pact, which is an important measure to strengthen peace. More recently, at its ninth Ministerial Meeting, last July in Libreville, attended by four out of five representatives of the permanent members of the Security Council, we adopted a major plan of action whose main thrust is: the establishment of an early-warning mechanism as a way of preventing conflict in Central Africa; the organization in the medium term of a regional conference on democratic institutions and peace in Central Africa; and training seminars for law enforcement personnel on peacekeeping operations, with the goal of preparing countries of the subregion to participate, with United Nations assistance, in possible future peacekeeping operations. In my capacity as Chairman of the Bureau of that Committee, I should like to draw the keen attention of all executive bodies operating under the aegis of the United Nations and the European Union, and our partners in the 16 subregion, to the benefits of effectively establishing this early-warning mechanism before the end of 1997. Still in that capacity, I wish to appeal to all Member States and to the international community as a whole to contribute to the Trust Fund set up by the Secretary- General to finance the work of the Committee. Looking at the crises that have erupted recently in Central Africa, I have to say that today the subregion is facing the possibility of many conflicts flaring up, involving populations beyond our national boundaries, threatening the stability of our States and even calling into question the principle of the inviolability of borders — a principle that the Organization of African Unity has held dear since its inception. The danger is real. We must ward it off. Through me, Gabon welcomes the United States initiative to convene a special meeting of the Security Council on the situation in Africa, the first of its kind. We are grateful for the fact that on that solemn occasion, on 25 September 1997, the Security Council reaffirmed its principal responsibility for the preservation of peace on our continent. But how can we forget that United Nations files are bursting with piles of reports, declarations and resolutions on Africa, all of them equally relevant? Everyone here will recall that some 10 years ago the General Assembly held a special session on Africa. Yes, I know — they say that now that the cold war has ended Africa is no longer of prime strategic importance. Too bad for us! For my part, I would say “So much the better for us”, because we Africans have no reason to cry over the fall of the Berlin Wall. That was a tremendously important event for us too; it opened up new prospects. Today, however, the African peoples, just like others, are no longer willing to be paid in words and slogans. They thus expect concrete measures to emerge from the special meeting that was held by the Security Council last week. Although Africa is no longer of prime strategic importance, is Africa not today, where the United Nations is concerned, its real challenge, I might even say its guilty conscience — because of the Organization’s underlying philosophy and vocation? Looking beyond Africa, Gabon is also greatly concerned over the blockage in the Middle East process, and we invite all the parties there to resume the dialogue, with the support of the whole of the international community, for there, as elsewhere, no lasting solution can be achieved through force. The wars and conflicts we all deplore are made possible by the devastating force of weapons. We must therefore patiently and resolutely succeed in disarming the nations of the world. Thus, we welcome the progress made in this area by the entry into force of the Convention on the prohibition of chemical weapons, which demonstrates the will of the international community to eliminate that category of weapons of mass destruction. In the same connection, my country supports the Ottawa process aimed at a complete ban on anti-personnel landmines. The recent Oslo Diplomatic Conference on that subject worked along the lines we had hoped it would. We regret, however, that some countries were unable to join in the powerful and promising consensus that emerged there. We trust that in the near future they will be able to do so. The representative I sent to Oslo told me that some of those present had tried to establish for those weapons a special category that they would be able to retain, a category of what they called “intelligent” anti-personnel mines. I do not know what that means. Intelligent or stupid, anti-personnel mines kill, and they often kill the innocent. They must therefore be banned. If while playing in a field your child’s leg is torn off by a so-called intelligent mine, you would find no consolation in the thought that the mine was an intelligent one. In any event, Gabon urges all United Nations Member States to bend all their efforts towards adopting a plan of action for general and complete disarmament. Humanity will be the better for it. We are not sufficiently aware of the human suffering that underlies armed conflicts, particularly the suffering of the victims, and especially of women, the elderly and children, for killing them means killing the life, the past and the future of the human race. In that connection, one can only employ the word “abominable” in describing the growing use of children in conflicts. Over the past decade a million children have been killed, 6 million have been seriously wounded or handicapped for life, more than a million have been orphaned or separated from their families, and millions of others are suffering serious psychological damage. This dark picture is even darker in Africa than in other continents. That is why Gabon, a party to the United 17 Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and a signatory of the Charter of the Rights and Welfare of the African Child, joins the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) in condemning the use of children as soldiers and urges Governments and all combatants on the battlefield to halt a number of particularly shameful practices, namely, the recruitment of children into the armed forces, the participation of children in combat, and violations and abuses to which they are often subjected. In another area, the Gabonese authorities are deeply concerned by the struggle against the scourges of crime and drug proliferation, which are other sources of human suffering. We have taken a number of initiatives to combat them, including the reorganization of our security services and the creation of an interministerial commission to combat drug addiction. However, combating those phenomena clearly calls for resolution and determined acts of solidarity and cooperation at the international level. Turning now to the question of development, I should like to recall that the final goal of government is the well- being of peoples. Against that background, the international community has evidenced its will to improve the human condition by organizing various workshops, seminars and conferences. I would just mention the Rio Conference on the environment, the Vienna Conference on human rights, the Beijing Conference on women, the Cairo Conference on population, the Copenhagen Conference on social development and the Stockholm Conference on the sexual exploitation of children, as well as the very latest special session of the General Assembly devoted to the mid-term review of Agenda 21. However, even after all those meetings that aroused such hopes, it looks as though our community is not truly determined to fulfil the obligations it has freely entered into. It seems to be difficult to translate proclaimed intentions into action. Gabon therefore hopes that there will be greater movement towards action at the forthcoming Kyoto Conference on climate change, which will be a test of the industrialized countries’ commitments to sustainable development. Similarly, we would encourage the International Seabed Authority to continue its work, particularly on the elaboration of a balanced mining code that takes into account the interests of all States as well as environmental questions. The importance of the eight most developed countries and their real ability to have an impact on the international economy give us ground to hope that the commitments entered into at the recent Denver summit will enable us to work towards strengthening an international economy at the service of humanity. This may sound like a litany of ills, but until the situation improves we must continue to repeat that Africa is suffering from very serious structural problems. These consist, inter alia, of economies, often based on a single crop, that are dependent on the outside world; deterioration in the terms of trade; reverse finance flow; the lowest level of development; the largest number of least developed countries and of displaced persons and refugees. However, I think it is important to highlight the fact that in addition to its potential, which it owes to raw materials, Africa also represents an effective market of more than 700 million inhabitants. We know that if it is to develop, our continent must first and foremost rely on itself. Yet there is so much to be done. We are familiar with the slogan, “Trade, not aid”. It is not entirely untrue. But would it be outrageous to say that it is not completely true either, because it is obvious that in Africa there exist countries whose development level is already allowing them to cherish some legitimate commercial and trade ambitions on the international market as well as countries that still require assistance, at least in certain areas, and particularly in the social area. To the latter countries, it would be better to say: “Trade and aid”. It is in that spirit that Gabon will attend the ninth summit of the African, Caribbean and Pacific States (ACP) associated with the European Union in the context of the Lomé Convention. My country will have the honour of hosting this summit in its capital on 6 and 7 November 1997. I take this opportunity to say to the ACP countries — and all of them are here at the General Assembly — that we are ready to welcome them next month and that we await them all. Gabon is a beneficiary of the international economic environment, and I would therefore like to share with the Assembly our experience in this area. 18 Since mid-1995, Gabon’s economic performance has improved considerably. The rate of growth has increased significantly; inflation has been reduced to a very low level; and our situation outside the country has been strengthened. Structural measures and administrative reform are accelerating. The Government is stepping up the liberalization of the economy and the cleaning up of the business environment. A vast programme of privatizing public enterprises has already been put into effect. It began with the Gabon Water and Energy Company. The privatization was carried out in very orderly and transparent conditions — to the surprise of not a few — and the programme will be continued in other spheres. Aware of the decisive role the private sector has to play in Gabon’s prosperity and in increasing the standard of living of its people, our Government is trying to establish a legal and regulatory environment which will facilitate private investment and open up various sectors of the economy to competition. We sincerely state that Gabon is open to all private investment. As President Bongo likes to say, “Gabon is not the private reserve of anybody”. The Gabonese authorities are making sure that our commitments in the area of loans and repayments are realistic and viable. They call for appropriate treatment in respect of our foreign public debt, because the strict deadlines for repayment often hamper our efforts to revitalize our economy. Finally, partnership in all areas must be strengthened and the transfer of technologies encouraged, so that the national capacities of our countries can be revitalized. In his speech to the General Assembly, the Secretary- General expressed the hope that this session will be known as the Reform Assembly. Indeed, the world today is not what it was in 1945. Our Organization must adapt to the new realities. Gabon therefore welcomes the recommendations of the Secretary-General for the reform of the Organization. The current discussions must result in consensus machinery that will safeguard the various interests of the Member States. But it remains true that no reform plan can be successful until the financial situation of the United Nations is cured. My country recalls that we attach great priority to the recommendations formulated by the Organization of African Unity at its last summit, in Harare, and to the proposals made by the Non-Aligned Movement at its Ministerial Conference in New Delhi in April 1997. President Bongo spoke as long ago as 1977 on the question of an increase in the membership of the Security Council, and I had the occasion to repeat his position before the General Assembly in 1995 and 1996. Let me repeat it one more time. Gabon suggests that we can reconcile the seemingly contradictory requirements in this way: by eliminating the geographical imbalance in the Security Council so as to consolidate its legitimacy and effectiveness; by making the decision-making process in the Council more democratic; and by allowing for a fairer representation of Africa. Africa calls for two permanent seats, with the same rights the other permanent members have; the seats would be rotated in accordance with principles that the African Group will submit in due time to the General Assembly. Gabon reaffirms here its commitment to the principles of universality and the sovereign equality of States. These should underlie all the thinking in regard to reform. It is my hope that this session of the General Assembly will enable us to take another step towards strengthening the ideals we all share. This transition towards a more humane world will not be without perils. We will have to combat simultaneously the upsurge of selfishness and the development of false solidarity, which can lead our peoples to fratricidal struggle. I am convinced that, united, we will take up the challenge to build a better world. ﻿Let me begin by congratulating Mr. Udovenko on his election as President of the General Assembly at this fifty-second session. The country and the Group he represents have seen great changes in the last decade. It therefore seems particularly fitting that he is presiding over a General Assembly which will lay the foundation for significant changes to the United Nations itself — changes which must equip it better for the new and potentially more cooperative international environment in which we find ourselves. It is thus not only right but necessary that reform is the major theme of the United Nations at present, and of this General Assembly in particular. We would like to thank the former President of the Assembly, Ambassador Razali, for the outstanding contribution he made to pursuing the reform agenda during his presidency, notably 16 in his capacity as Chairman of the General Assembly Working Groups. Today I want to concentrate on three issues in particular: reform of the United Nations; reorienting our approach to human rights so as to promote cooperation and institution building, creating durable structures to give substance to the goals set out in the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other international human rights instruments; and reconfiguring the traditional United Nations groups better to reflect the regional groupings of the contemporary world. In dealing with reform, my purpose is to build a world for the next generation, and I am inspired by the hope and aspirations of the next generation. In that context, I am pleased that we are joined in the General Assembly today by Mr. Perry Cross, a distinguished and courageous young Australian who is leading the fight against paralysis. He exemplifies the Australian belief that individuals with a will and a practical focus can make a difference in fighting barriers and reforming structures which are representative of an earlier era. Australia wants to work with you, Sir, and with the Secretary-General and all Members of the United Nations, to ensure that by the end of this session of the General Assembly further, substantive progress has been made in the three critical areas of reform: financial reform and resolution of the crisis surrounding the United Nations budget and scale of assessments; reform of the Security Council; and reform of the Organization. When I made my first statement to the Assembly last year, I stressed the need to move ahead urgently with reform and the reinvigoration of this important Organization, to ensure its future effectiveness and relevance. This year reform has been given real impetus by the new Secretary-General, whose appointment Australia warmly welcomed. Both in March and in July this year he announced significant organizational reforms aimed at the renewal of this body. I have enthusiastically supported these initiatives. We must now build on them. We share the Secretary-General’s conclusions about the shortcomings of the United Nations. The Organization’s mission, as enshrined in the Charter, has been repeatedly reaffirmed and remains valid today. But the machinery and the working methods to pursue that mission need thorough review and revision. We agree that there is too much fragmentation of structures, too much rigidity within bodies and too much emphasis on bureaucracy and process. I would like to highlight in particular the reforms suggested to the United Nations structure and to the Secretariat. The integration of 12 secretariats and entities into 5, and the proposed consolidation of five intergovernmental bodies into two are particularly welcome. They will help streamline and remove unnecessary bureaucratic structure and duplication from the Secretariat. It is an approach we commend also to the specialized agencies as Member nations seek to streamline and even merge some of these bodies. Important steps are proposed in reforming the way the Secretariat works. We applaud the removal of 1,000 staff posts and the cutting of administrative costs by one third to which the Secretary-General has committed himself. We also wish to see all Secretariat staff move to fixed-term, renewable contracts to allow for greater employment flexibility in the Organization. We support the introduction of a merit-based promotion system and performance appraisal in the place of a system where seniority plays a disproportionate role. We also encourage management to improve training opportunities for junior as well as senior staff. These reforms will not only make the United Nations work better, but also provide real savings. These savings will be available for programmes, programmes which benefit all of us, but especially support the developing Members of the United Nations. Thus it is a package which is in the interests of all, and deserves support from all. We believe the Assembly needs to provide broad endorsement of the package as a whole early in this session to allow the reform process to proceed, even if some details are negotiated subsequently. But I acknowledge that for reform to succeed and for the United Nations to carry out its mandate adequate resources must be made available to run the Organization. Australia continues to meet all its financial obligations in full and on time and without conditions, and seeks the same commitment from all our fellow Members. We continue to believe that the negotiation of financial reforms would be facilitated by early settlement of all unpaid contributions. The adoption of a responsible negative- growth budget and a new scale of assessments which accurately reflects relative shares of national income and thus the principle of capacity to pay will also be key issues at this year’s session. It is important that the result 17 ensures the burden of supporting the Organization falls fairly on Member States. Australia remains committed to an expanded, more representative and transparent Security Council, better able to tackle the challenges of the twenty-first century. It should include as permanent members important Powers able to make a major contribution to international peace and security, particularly at this time Japan and Germany. It should also include permanent seats for under-represented regions as well as additional non-permanent seats. Middle Powers such as Australia have made a significant contribution to the United Nations since its foundation, notably in disarmament, development, peacekeeping and human rights. We are concerned that the interests of small and medium-sized countries not be forgotten in this exercise. In this context, and because of our long-standing historical concerns about the veto, we would like to see an expansion of the Council accompanied by a new understanding on the application of the veto. We would also support a review of any new arrangements after 10 years so that countries like Australia and all other members of the international community have a further opportunity to examine the size, composition and working methods of the Council. I am optimistic about what can be achieved by the United Nations if we can bring about some essential reforms which would make the Organization function more efficiently and effectively. Let me mention one of the areas in which the United Nations has proven it can function effectively: as a forum and catalyst for international arms control and disarmament efforts. In recent years we have witnessed several landmark developments in this field, notably the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. The General Assembly was the forum, one year ago, for the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test- Ban Treaty, and Australia is particularly proud to have been able to play a role in that historic event. There are many challenges ahead as we work with, and through, the United Nations to reduce global stockpiles of conventional and non-conventional weapons and to make the world a safer and more humane place. Let me single out two. The immediate commencement and early conclusion of negotiations on a fissile material cut-off treaty has repeatedly been identified by the international community as the next major goal for nuclear non- proliferation and disarmament efforts, most recently by the parties to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty — which now has more members than the United Nations itself — at their first preparatory meeting for the sixth Review Conference in 2000. The Canberra Commission on the Elimination of Nuclear Weapons also identified an agreement to cease the production of fissile material for nuclear explosive purposes as an important step towards the elimination of nuclear weapons. Capping the amount of nuclear material available for nuclear weapons use by extending safeguards coverage over currently unsafeguarded, sensitive nuclear facilities would in itself be a significant achievement for international peace and security, quite apart from its significance as a step towards the ultimate elimination of nuclear weapons. As I said to the Committee on Disarmament in January this year, the achievement of a fissile material cut-off treaty is a priority objective for Australia, and I now commit Australia to redoubling its efforts to achieve a cut-off treaty at the earliest possible date. We must not allow ourselves to be put off by the obstacles that currently face the achievement of this goal. The effective elimination of landmines as a weapon of war is another important task facing the United Nations collectively and its members individually. I have been gratified by the gains made to date, through the Ottawa process, through the Inhumane Weapons Convention, through national and regional measures and, perhaps most important, through enhanced contributions to demining and mine-victim assistance programmes to address the terrible human toll of anti-personnel landmines. We owe it to the victims of anti-personnel landmines to continue working through all avenues to achieve a real and lasting solution to the global landmines problem. The elimination of landmines is one necessary step in creating a more humane world, a world where individual human rights can demand proper respect. But further measures need to be taken involving the establishment of durable national human rights institutions to advance the goals to which our international human rights treaty commitments aspire. We are encouraged by and support the proposal to integrate human rights issues more fully into a range of United Nations activities. In our view, the linkages between respect for human rights, good governance and sustainable development are important. The fact that all four Executive Committees established by the Secretary-General will take human 18 rights issues into account in their deliberations should ensure that more effective coordination is possible across United Nations activities. We warmly welcome also the steps taken by the Secretary General to reform and reinvigorate the Secretariat’s organizational structure to support human rights, particularly the consolidation of the Office of the High Commissioner and the Centre for Human Rights into a single office. His appointment of the former President of Ireland, Mary Robinson, as High Commissioner for Human Rights is an excellent choice. We pledge ourselves to support her in her task. Another important recent development at the international level has been the negotiation of a draft statute for an international criminal court. Australia is strongly committed to the early establishment of the court as a major human rights objective. We urge all nations to support by consensus the proposed resolution at this General Assembly calling for the convening of a diplomatic conference in June 1998 to finalize and adopt the statute of the court. As we approach the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we pay tribute to the universal standards the Declaration has helped to establish. Let us never forget as well that the Declaration, along with the two International Covenants, and the whole body of treaty law and practice that has since developed, was reaffirmed by all nations at the Vienna World Conference on Human Rights in 1993. Australia is a nation committed to the advancement of human rights and regards human rights issues as integral to its diplomacy. However, the Australian Government does not want the important area of human rights to become an unproductive battleground or an environment for sloganeering. What we seek is results, not rhetoric, with the outcome being genuine improvements in human rights. The real basis for a sustained improvement in the quality of human rights needs to be through domestic reform founded on working institutions that guarantee participation and accountability. Reform of the institutions of civil governance must come from within. It is not something that can be imposed from outside, for if there is not the political will and the people with the knowledge and a commitment to making those institutions work, then they will simply founder. Almost all nations have dark moments in their history where abuses have occurred, where vigilance has failed. Abuses and corruption are most likely to disappear when there are institutions established to bring light into this darkness. All too often, however, instead of working patiently to encourage and help others to build these institutions, countries have tended to address issues of human rights by criticism alone. There is no doubt that in the 52 years since the United Nations was established the world has witnessed many egregious and vile acts committed for the most inhumane of reasons, and deserving the strongest condemnation. However, the condemnatory approach alone has only limited practical value. We need to recognize that in practical terms protecting human rights must primarily be done at the national level. The international human rights system, which we have worked hard to build, inevitably has a broad focus and a limited ability to assist States to implement agreed standards. Regional human rights mechanisms also have a role, and we should do what we can to encourage their establishment and strengthening, including in the Asia-Pacific. However, it is clear that the ability of each State effectively to protect human rights depends to a significant degree on the strength of its own institutions, including a representative legislature, an accountable executive and an independent judiciary. A vigorous civil society is another important element in creating a culture of human rights. A critical element that has often been undervalued in the national implementation of human rights standards is the importance of effective institutions as a means to achieving good governance. It is this institution-based good governance that offers a real hope of eradicating the randomness and violence that can characterize systems where there is neither popular participation nor genuine accountability. Good governance creates the environment in which civil and political rights are respected and protected. Good governance also promotes an environment for sound economic management and sustainable use of resources to increase prosperity. These conditions are important to the protection of economic, social and cultural rights. At the same time, the exercise of civil and political rights through participatory processes is essential to good governance because it helps ensure governmental accountability and effectiveness. The interlinkages are such that action in one area of human rights has a positive reinforcing effect on other dimensions of human rights, making all human rights indivisible. Accountability, participation and effective institutions are three fundamental principles necessary for the protection of human rights. 19 It is with all this in mind that Australia gives priority to institution building in the human rights field. One of the most significant developments in recent years has been the spread of national institutions for the promotion of human rights. Such institutions, able to work with Governments and civil society, can reflect to a significant degree the different cultures and local conditions of the societies in which they are established, while remaining consistent with international human rights standards. Moreover, it is worth noting that the General Assembly has endorsed a set of minimum standards for such institutions — the so-called Paris principles. Despite considerable early scepticism, recent experience has been very positive, and many Governments and non-governmental organizations are now looking positively at independent national institutions as an important means to promote and protect human rights. The generally positive view of the work of national institutions held by most States was reflected in the adoption by consensus of Australia’s resolution on this subject at this year’s session of the Commission on Human Rights, with an increased number of co-sponsors. Developing countries are showing rapidly increasing interest in establishing or strengthening existing national human rights institutions, as a constructive way to take positive action at the national level, bearing in mind national circumstances, to promote respect for human rights. Important examples of human rights institutions recently established in my part of the world that are making a difference on the ground include those in India and Indonesia. I was encouraged recently by the statement of Papua New Guinea’s Prime Minister that he intends to press ahead to establish a human rights commission in the near future. We will also watch with expectation the development of the proposed Cambodian national human rights commission. A credible and independent human rights commission, along with a genuinely independent national electoral commission, could make an important contribution to protecting stability and promoting the observance of human rights in Cambodia in the lead-up to what we strongly hope will be free, fair and credible elections in May next year. The work of national institutions in individual countries can be strengthened through subregional and regional arrangements which provide a framework for exchanges of views and experiences. Australia is a strong supporter of the development of such arrangements in the Asia-Pacific region. Since an inaugural meeting in Darwin in 1996 there has been a steady consolidation of links among established and emerging Asia-Pacific human rights commissions. The 1996 meeting saw the commissions of Australia, New Zealand, Indonesia and India — later also joined by the Philippines — establish a regional network of human rights commissions, the Asia-Pacific Forum of National Human Rights Institutions, with a supporting Secretariat based in and financed by Australia. The aim of this network is to strengthen cooperation among national human rights institutions, including through information sharing, staff exchanges, technical cooperation and an annual regional meeting. It also assists other regional Governments wishing to establish such institutions. The most recent regional meeting has just been held, in New Delhi. It attracted participation from the founding human rights commissions as well as that of Sri Lanka. Other regional countries from Asia and the Pacific attended as observers, some of which are considering the establishment of their own human rights commissions. A most effective area of United Nations operations in this field has been the work of the Special Adviser to the High Commissioner for Human Rights on National Institutions, Regional Arrangements and Preventive Strategies. The United Nations work with a number of Governments, including in our own region, is at an important stage. Australia was therefore pleased to provide additional financial support this year to enable the United Nations to continue to support national institutions. We welcome the Secretary-General’s commitment in his report on the work of the Organization to strengthening cooperation on issues of democratization and good governance. We note his comment that “This past year has seen a dramatic increase in activities relating to the establishment of national institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights.” (A/52/1, para. 30) We are heartened by this development and by the responsiveness of the Secretary-General. His report clearly reflects the need I am stressing here for support for national institution-building to be at the centre of United Nations human rights endeavours. Earlier this year I announced the establishment in Australia of a Centre for Democratic Institutions. This Centre will be devoted to the provision of practical support for the consolidation and strengthening of 20 democratic institutions in developing countries included in Australia’s aid programme. It exemplifies a cooperative rather than a conflict approach towards promoting human rights, and it will be the flagship of our good governance initiatives. The focus of the Centre’s training programmes will be on electoral, parliamentary, judicial and human rights institution-building and the processes by which broader society, notably the media and community groups, can contribute to democratic decision-making. It will also facilitate visits and secondments of appropriate participants, such as Parliamentarians, senior administrators and other influential persons to relevant Australian organizations. While human rights remain at risk, our values are compromised and international stability is jeopardized. The protection of human rights to promote the dignity of the individual is too important a matter for symbolic gestures alone. It is only through the pursuit of practical and effective efforts to promote human rights that we show our real commitment to the welfare of individuals and society. And it is vital to such practical outcomes that we orient our approach to human rights to emphasize cooperation and the creation of durable structures. If I may stay briefly with the subjects of practical outcomes and durable structures, the nations of the world are facing today the threat of climate change and will need to agree later this year in Kyoto on sustainable responses to that threat. At the recent South Pacific Forum, Australia, along with other Forum countries, acknowledged deep concern about the impact of increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases on rising sea levels and changing weather patterns, especially low-lying islands. Australia, along with others, is working hard to ensure that the Kyoto meeting delivers a sustainable environmental outcome. We stand ready to play our part, although, as we have made clear in these negotiations, we have no intention of imposing upon Australians an unfair and disproportionate cost in addressing this global problem. Before concluding, I should like to address the third and final reform issue I said I would be raising. Australia believes there is an element missing in the present discussion on reform. I am referring to the existing electoral group system, which dates back to the last major reform of the group system in 1963. Since the size of the United Nations has nearly doubled since 1963, mostly with new nations from Africa, Asia and the Pacific, this issue needs to be addressed again. The present configuration contains many conspicuous anomalies and inequities which constitute powerful arguments for reform. The substantial disparities in the size of the various groups and the inadequate level of representation available to the many subregions, including in our own geographic region of East Asia and the Pacific, has long been an evident source of frustration. Comparisons between the size of the African and East European Groups — embracing 53 and 21 members, respectively — demonstrate the legitimacy of dissatisfaction with the status quo in this regard. This widespread sense of under-representation is exacerbated by the social and political diversity of the larger groups and the limited extent to which a single member can be said to represent the group as a whole. While we have our own ideas, Australia does not believe it would be helpful to prescribe any rigid formula for reconfiguration of the group system. We acknowledge this is a sensitive issue on which there are many views. But I believe it is time we began to think about and discuss this matter, as we seek to equip the United Nations for the future. Ultimately, reform of the United Nations means one thing. It means a more efficient organization capable of delivering practical outcomes to the people of the world. If we are to achieve that reform, then we must focus on cooperation, not conflict. We must build institutions which will guarantee effective vigilance, and above all else we must have the courage to abandon the ideas and structures of the past and embrace the changes which bring the future.  ﻿May I begin by congratulating the President on his election to preside over the General Assembly at its fifty-second session. We are in good hands as we begin our work during what the Secretary-General has called “the reform Assembly.” I know, too, that my Foreign Minister, on whose behalf I am speaking, would want to warmly congratulate the outgoing President, Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia, on his efforts during the past 12 months. It has been a challenging time, and he has demonstrated the decisive leadership we all expected of him. Two years ago, at the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, world leaders undertook to give the twenty- first century an Organization equipped, financed and structured to serve effectively the peoples in whose name it was established. With the year 2000 now only 27 months away, we are still far from that goal. This is a matter of great concern to New Zealand. We firmly believe in the United Nations as a vehicle to a better life for the world's citizens, and not just for those who live now. We have a responsibility to strengthen the Organization for our grandchildren and beyond. We must not let them and ourselves down by allowing an unreformed United Nations to slide into increasing irrelevance. We do not pretend the process of reform is easy or finite. As the Secretary-General has said, “Reform is not an event; it is a process.” [A/51/950, para. 25] Our own in volvement on the intergovernmental track, including co- chairing the Working Group on the Strengthening of the United Nations System and the Working Group on an Agenda for Development, has given us a good appreciation of the complexities involved in producing positive outcomes acceptable to 185 Member States. We know the Secretary-General faces the same issues with his 16 July package. As with any package, it is inevitable that some Member States will find fault with individual elements. But we are firmly of the belief that the package should be viewed as a whole. This will be for the greater good of the Organization. Difficulties with individual elements of the package should not be allowed to unpick the overall good which is in it. We appeal to Member States to acknowledge this reality and to give the Secretary-General their generous support. It is small countries like New Zealand, and developing countries, which, as we see it, stand most to benefit from what the Secretary-General is trying to achieve. To reform and strengthen the United Nations effectively, we see a need to redistribute resources away from administration and into areas which are important for those of us who place a high priority on the United Nations itself. We support efficiencies, not cost-cutting. The crucial difference between the two is that one approach seeks simply to save money without regard to the impact on the Organization. We cannot support this. The United Nations is too important to us to allow such a downgrading. An approach based on efficiencies allows us to reinvigorate the United Nations by reinvesting the money saved from outdated administrative practices. This is central to the Secretary-General's package. In particular, the proposal for a “development dividend” channelling resources freed by administrative efficiencies into strengthening the development activities of the United Nations is most welcome. We can certify from our own national experience that the sort of management reforms proposed in the package do indeed lead to a reduction in administrative overheads, allowing more to be delivered in terms of substantive programmes. At a time when development funds are diminishing, the significance of this step should not be lost. New Zealand is a country that is increasing its overseas aid — by 40 per cent since the 1992 United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, the Rio Summit. Our contributions through the United Nations system have also increased by nearly 50 per cent over the last five years. But the global trend is the opposite, particularly among the larger traditional donors. It is becoming harder and harder for Governments to meet their Charter commitment to promote the economic and social advancement of all peoples. One of the modest outcomes of the last two years of reform efforts within the United Nations has been the elaboration of an Agenda for Development 19 reaffirming the primacy of development, setting objectives and recommending ways of achieving them. But, with the best will in the world, implementing that Agenda will come to naught in the absence of adequate funding. The Secretary-General's reforms are designed to deliver more for development. Equally important, they are designed to boost confidence in the United Nations, confidence which two weeks ago was given tangible form by Mr. Ted Turner's billion-dollar grant to assist United Nations agencies in key development activities. That generous offer has given the Organization a real boost and could be a catalyst for leveraging further private-sector funds for development. We must support the Secretary- General's efforts to make the United Nations the best vehicle for delivering such assistance. Member States need to trust the Secretary-General to fulfil his responsibilities under the Charter: to give effect to the policy directions which they set. We need to be clear and realistic in the priorities we set for the United Nations. We cannot mandate the Organization with more and more new tasks and somehow expect these to be achieved within current resources. And, having set the priorities, we must resist the temptation to micro-manage. This will involve a sea-change in the way Member States have become accustomed to operating. The Fifth Committee still makes decisions about staff numbers and placement within the Secretariat, administrative decisions that in any modern organization would be the responsibility of its managers. We know that the transitional process of change will not be easy for those working in the Secretariat either. But — and we are conscious of our own experience in New Zealand in instituting public-sector reform — the managerial and results-based budgeting proposals in the July package will improve work performance and will deliver greater job satisfaction to those working for the United Nations. The Organization's most important resource is its people. The package recognizes the vital importance of investment in staff. If the best and brightest are to be attracted to and retained by the United Nations, they must be recruited, trained, promoted and paid according to procedures which are as good as the best employed by Member States. It is also important to stress here the loyalty owed to the Secretary-General by those who work for him. He has the right to expect their full support for his leadership and for the initiatives he puts forward. Anything less would be dishonourable, would subvert due process and would potentially disenfranchise Member States. It could not be tolerated. I referred earlier to the intergovernmental track. It is worth touching on the key issues of Security Council and financial reform. On the former, New Zealand will judge specific proposals for enlargement of the Security Council by the yardstick of democracy and the representativeness of the institution as a whole. Increasing the proportion of permanent to non-permanent members runs counter to this principle. Nor could a package on Security Council reform be acceptable to us without substantive proposals opening up and modernizing the workings of the Council. Sunshine, an American jurist once observed, is the best disinfectant. Member States must continue to participate in the debate in the search for a consensus solution. On financial reform, New Zealand is strongly concerned about the crisis facing the United Nations. It is true that there are problems with the scales of assessments for both the regular and the peacekeeping budgets. The present floor has a negative impact on smaller, vulnerable nations, such as the South Pacific island countries, New Zealand's neighbours. This is just one example of the kind of problem that needs to be addressed. But those who want to see changes made to the scale need to offer genuine inducements, not threats. We cannot accept that any Member State is entitled to withhold payments unilaterally or that the assessment of those countries that will not pay their dues should be picked up by others. All assessed contributions must be paid in full, on time and unconditionally. It is a violation of international legal obligations to do otherwise. This must be regarded with the utmost seriousness by Member States. It undermines the Organization's ability to operate. It penalizes, through damage to the Organization, those Member States that abide by their obligations. When the State responsible for the largest percentage of arrears owed to the United Nations is also the richest, and when that State in addition attaches conditions to the payment of only a portion of what it owes, it is understandable that these actions should generate real scepticism in this Assembly. This sorry state of affairs must be resolved quickly. But it can be resolved only on the basis of a credible commitment that all conditions will be eliminated now and that all payments will be made on time. And that means in January each year. 20 I would like to raise another reform issue which has not featured prominently in discussions to date, namely United Nations regional groupings. It seems to us that this is an issue that deserves examination. The groupings are in need of revision to bring them up to date with present-day geopolitical realities. It is anomalous, for example, that our Pacific island neighbours, members with us of the South Pacific Forum grouping, belong to the Asian Group while, for historical reasons, New Zealand belongs to the Group of Western European and Other States. The fundamental importance we accord our membership of the institutions of the South Pacific Forum, of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council and of the Regional Forum of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), and our relationship with ASEAN itself, should be able to be better reflected in the regional groupings. We accordingly see value in a reconfiguration of New York electoral groupings to bring them more in line with those used elsewhere in the United Nations system, where New Zealand in most cases sits with our South Pacific partners and our East Asian neighbours. Developments in other regions will result in further anomalies in the present structure. We see at a future stage some long and complex negotiations over regional seat allocations for a revised system of regional groups. New Zealand of course will join with others in negotiating new and equitable allocations of seats. While we look forward to the outcome of that process, we realize that it will not come overnight. In the meantime, and as a matter of high priority, my delegation is working to forge a closer relationship with the Asian regional group in New York. I would like to close my statement by focusing once more on the utmost importance of Member States' giving positive endorsement to the Secretary-General's package at this General Assembly, as New Zealand will be doing — not only because it provides a positive and concrete start to a reform process, but also because the alternative of not supporting the Secretary-General will, in our view, seriously undermine the credibility of the United Nations. For two years the United Nations has been involved in the current reform exercise. But none of us can pretend that reform is an end in itself, or that introspection is an ongoing excuse for inaction. The United Nations exists to deliver concrete, substantive assistance to the hundreds of millions most in need. No amount of self-analysis is a substitute for that. Moreover, sustained emphasis on introspection will erode the Organization's capacity, and possibly also its will, to perform the tasks for which it was created. The challenge now is to embrace the bold programme of reform outlined by the Secretary-General, to use this General Assembly to begin to implement it, and then to direct our energy where it rightly belongs, to taking practical steps to reduce suffering and build a better and more peaceful world: like drawing up a solid, practical programme for alleviating poverty in the coming decade; like establishing an international criminal court which will ensure that individuals are held responsible for war crimes; like supporting and enhancing the United Nations capability for preventive diplomacy; and like invigorating the United Nations capacity for peacekeeping. These are the standards by which the real success or failure of the United Nations will be judged. New Zealand is determined that the verdict will be a positive one. Working together, we can ensure that it is. ﻿On behalf of the Republic of Angola, allow me first to congratulate the President, Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko, on his election to preside over the fifty-second session of the General Assembly. Allow me also to congratulate the outgoing President, Ambassador Razali Ismail, on the excellent work he performed. We should also like to express our appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his dedication and determination in turning the United Nations into a more effective instrument to meet the challenges of the twenty-first century. The cold war, which was the main obstacle that for decades prevented the United Nations from performing its role fully, a role defined by its founding Members in the Charter, is now a thing of the past. But our world Organization has not yet achieved the degree of efficiency that the Member countries and their people would desire, with the result that sometimes despair and a lack of confidence are felt, instead of trust in its efforts. The construction of the new democratic world order to which we all aspire will demand that the principal forum for multilateral diplomacy, the United Nations, play a greater role. In this context, the complete restructuring and revitalization of its system and an end to the present financial crisis, which is affecting its normal functioning, are essential. The issue of the restructuring of the Security Council should therefore be given priority. The current structure of that body is obsolete, reflecting a reality that prevailed more than 50 years ago. How is it conceivable that 27 regions such as the African continent, which makes up the largest regional group at the United Nations, or Latin America, are not represented among the permanent Members of the Security Council? Therefore, it is high time that the geographical composition of that body be overhauled to allow for more balanced and more equitable representation. In this regard, Angola endorses the African claim for no fewer than two seats among the permanent members of the Security Council. The Council’s working methods should also be revised in order to ensure greater transparency in its decision-making processes. Angola supports the declaration made by the Heads of State of the Organization of African Unity, as well as the statement made by the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the non-aligned countries on reform of the Security Council. The recent proposals made by the Secretary-General on reform will certainly boost the process of overhauling the United Nations. Angola welcomes the contents of those proposals, although we would have preferred to see further improvements in some aspects. We are, however, optimistic as to the outcome. As the Assembly is aware, the Lusaka Protocol which was signed in 1994 between the Government and the armed opposition, UNITA, was intended to solve the post-electoral crisis provoked by UNITA and at the same time to put the country back on the path towards peace, national reconciliation and democracy. However, approximately three years since the beginning of its implementation, Angola is still far from achieving those goals due to the systematic failures by UNITA to meet its obligations and to its repeated delaying tactics. This is a clear demonstration of bad faith and lack of political will by its leadership. It appears that the leader of this organization has not abandoned its strategy of taking power by force. He is still resisting the transformation of UNITA into a true political party and UNITA’s complete demilitarization, even though the single national army, which includes in its ranks thousands of men provided by UNITA, has already been formed. UNITA still maintains a private, heavily armed army made up of around 35,000 men, 4,000 of whom belong to the UNITA leader’s personal guard. This constitutes a serious violation of the Lusaka Protocol and is the main cause of the current climate of tension and insecurity in some parts of Angola. The members of this army include troops that UNITA hid from the United Nations during the quartering process, recently demobilized UNITA troops who have been recruited again by force, and former soldiers of the former Republic of Zaire. At the same time, UNITA is still continuing its military build-up through the reactivation of military bases and acquisition of sophisticated weapons from foreign countries, in clear contradiction of paragraph 19 of Security Council resolution 864 (1993). On the other hand, UNITA is holding on to large portions of national territory which were supposed to be handed over to government administration. This is impeding exercise of the State’s sovereignty throughout the country and the free movement of people and goods. The control of some of these areas is aimed at exploring for, and then smuggling and exploiting, their natural resources to finance UNITA’s war machinery and satisfy the individual interests of its leadership. As a result of these actions, the perspectives created with the inauguration of the Government of National Unity and Reconciliation and the swearing-in of the Parliament have been postponed. UNITA’s behaviour in the peace process is repugnant as well as ambiguous. It insists on armed opposition despite the fact that it is part of the main power institutions and despite the fact that Angola has a democratic, pluralist system in which all political parties can freely carry out their activities. The international community has already expressed, repeatedly and categorically, its condemnation of and dismay at UNITA’s actions. In 1993 the Security Council applied the first package of restrictive measures against UNITA. More recently, the Security Council unanimously adopted resolution 1127 (1997), which applies a new package of measures against UNITA as a result of its lack of cooperation in the implementation of the Lusaka Protocol. The position taken by the Council above all displays the concern of the international community and its determination to prevent the UNITA leadership strategy from being implemented. Otherwise, peace and stability in Angola and the entire region of central and southern Africa would be at risk. The Government of Angola reiterates its firm support for resolution 1127 (1997), because we feel that it is a strong means of pressure aimed at dissuading UNITA from its intention to return to war, encouraging it to speed up its demilitarization and transformation into 28 a political party, and put an end to its jurisdiction over parts of Angolan territory. Taking the above into account, the Angolan people look forward to the Security Council’s demonstrating firmness and determination in implementing resolution 1127 (1997), immediately putting into force sanctions against UNITA unless that organization changes its behaviour and gives proof of good faith in complying with its outstanding obligations. The Government of Angola is optimistic about the successful conclusion of the peace process and will continue to do its utmost to guarantee the full implementation of the Lusaka Protocol. Before turning to another subject, I would like to express the sincerest gratitude of the Government of Angola to the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Angola, Mr. Alioune Blondin Beye, and to the Governments of the troika of observers, Portugal, Russia and the United States, for their untiring efforts to bring about peace in Angola. Recent changes in the Democratic Republic of the Congo have contributed to alleviating the tensions in the central African region, opening new perspectives for its States and peoples in terms of stability and development. The present climate will allow stability to prevail in the region and will allow for better coordination among States with a view to reinforcing the observance of the principle of good neighbourliness. The Angolan Government is very apprehensive regarding the crisis in the Republic of the Congo, a country with which Angola shares a common border, close consanguinity and historic ties. The Republic of Angola favours a negotiated solution to the crisis and supports the international mediation efforts headed by Mr. Omar Bongo, President of the Republic of Gabon. Our Government also supports the deployment of an international force as soon as a political settlement emerges from the negotiations. In Sierra Leone, we deplore the interruption of the democratic process and the overthrow of the legitimately elected institutions. The Government of Angola supports the efforts of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and, in particular, of neighbouring countries to restore the democratic institutions. We are also concerned with the situation in the Republic of the Comoros, where tensions are threatening the country’s independence and territorial integrity. We encourage the international community to support the efforts of the OAU in the search for a peaceful solution able to preserve the territorial integrity and independence of that country. The situation in Somalia continues to deteriorate, and a solution acceptable to all the parties concerned has yet to be found. The Angolan Government approves of the efforts made by member countries of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) and, in particular, the most recent initiatives of Ethiopia in bringing the representatives of the Somali factions together at the negotiating table. Of particular concern to us is the ostracism displayed in the main international forums with regard to the Somali crisis. In Western Sahara the recent opening of direct negotiations between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Frente POLISARIO front is a positive sign. The Angolan Government has always been in favour of a negotiated solution to the conflict which takes into account the aspirations of the populations of the territory and encourages the parties to honour the agreements signed in Houston and to continue the ongoing dialogue in good faith. In this connection, we support the joint efforts of the OAU and the United Nations. We are concerned with the continuation of the Israeli-Arab conflict, the primary cause of the deteriorating situation in the Middle East. Recent events have delayed the peace process and have led to further deterioration of the situation in the region. Angola reaffirms its support for the peace process in the Middle East. Its success depends upon the reinforcement of mutual trust and the full implementation of the accords signed between the parties concerned. We endorse the position expressed in the Declaration of the Heads of State or Government of the OAU and the statement made in New Delhi at the ministerial meeting of the Non-Aligned Movement with regard to the question of Palestine. My Government expresses its concern at the lack of progress in the initiatives to bring about a just solution to the question of East Timor. The Government of Angola 29 deplores the refusal by one of the parties to accept President Mandela’s initiative. The economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed on Cuba is a matter of concern to my Government, particularly because of its negative impact on the economic and social situation of the Cuban people. We reiterate our appeal to have the embargo lifted, which will contribute to relations between two peoples. (spoke in English) Finally, I should like to thank those who have given me the opportunity to speak today. As the Assembly knows, my speech was to be delivered on 26 September. However, due to a sad event which has happened in my country, I have to leave tonight, and I was obliged to ask the Assembly to give me the opportunity to deliver my speech today. One of our colleagues, the former of Minister for Foreign Affairs of Angola, passed away yesterday. It is my duty to return home to pay my respects to my dear colleague. Many here know Foreign Minister 'Loy'. I wish the Assembly well, and may good work be done here for peace, stability and international cooperation.  ﻿I wish from this rostrum to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko on his unanimous election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session. I am certain that the successful conduct of the work of this session will justify the confidence we all have in his outstanding qualities as a statesman. I wish also to pay tribute to his predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail, whose ability and intelligence won the high regard of us all. Let me pay tribute also to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his dedication to the cause of international peace and security and for his in-depth knowledge of the issues on which the future of world peace depends. I want to emphasize my country’s commitment to the Charter ideals of peace, security, democracy, human rights and development. It is for the triumph of those ideals that we have struggled. The Democratic Republic of the Congo is among the few countries that from time immemorial, owing to its geostrategic placement and its vast human and natural resources, has borne the burden of a sombre history of suffering and outrageous violations of human rights and the rights of peoples. In 1885, when Africa was being colonized, my country was set up as a State that was the personal property of the King of the Belgians; it endured violence and blatant violations of human rights connected inter alia with the exploitation of red rubber and other kinds of forced labour. It became a Belgian colony in 1908, and was later to experience a decolonization process that was not merely botched, but was disastrous because my country became part of the global stakes in the East-West strategic rivalry. After my country acceded to independence in June 1960, at the height of the cold war, the symbol of our sovereignty, Prime Minister Patrice Emergy Lumumba, was martyred to that sovereignty. Under the complaisant eyes of the international community, a bloody and reactionary dictatorship was formed in the very heart of Africa, in the strategic interests of the dominating West, with the mission of destabilizing neighbouring countries. Thirty years later, thanks to the political changes that took place in the world in 1989, the international community saw regretfully the disastrous results of the support it had given to a regime that was a State in name only. The disasters caused by these years of bloody and ignoble dictatorship are so well known that there is no need to recount them. The World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and all the bodies of the United Nations system have studies, evaluations and gripping and moving 15 testimony of what the Mobutu regime represented at the end of the twentieth century. The opening of this fifty-second session of the General Assembly coincides happily with the emergence in Africa of a new generation of leaders who are totally dedicated to the cause of African renaissance and who are inspired by the decisive will to take in hand the destiny of the continent and to play their role in the community of nations. Among these individuals is Mr. Laurent-Désiré Kabila, whose struggle for the restoration of the Republic dates back to 14 September 1960, the day when the first Congolese democratic experience was interrupted. The triumph of the Congolese revolution on 17 May 1997 is, after the defeat of apartheid in South Africa, the historic event of greatest political importance in modern Africa. It represents the triumph of the return to pan- Africanism, the only road to salvation for Africa in the circumstances of today’s world. The massive and spontaneous adherence of the Congolese to this armed struggle and the support received from friendly countries and from the entire world is enough to underline the positive nature of this liberation struggle. The Congolese people are grateful to all for their support of the coming to Kinshasa of a progressive new power concerned with a state of law and improving of the well-being of the people. The victory of the Alliance of Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Congo over the Mobutu dictatorship is indeed a victory of progressive and pan-African Africa over obscurantism, pessimism, morbidness and defeatism, which for such a long time were pretexts for certain Powers to keep political and strategic control of the continent. In that country in which the State and the Republic were moribund, the Government of public security, led by President Laurent-Désiré Kabila, is working tirelessly and incessantly to restore the State and to rebuild the Republic. The efforts at domestic stabilization through reorganization of the State and the reconciliation of opinions and the return to work of the civilian population are accompanied by other efforts aimed at achieving peace and regional stability in order to create economic and political conditions conducive to productive national and foreign investment. Our African policy is designed to improve bilateral relations with all the States of the region, help them adapt better to the new geopolitical context and strengthen cooperation and regional integration. Along with the objective of promoting economic development, we are also working to achieve the prevention, management and resolution by Africa of the regional conflicts and crises that are paralysing our continent. This desire to change our foreign policy is based on our domestic policy, which is designed to rely primarily on our own efforts and to give greater importance to regional and South-South cooperation in our trade activities. Here, emphasis will be placed on trade promoting productive commerce and investments leading to the transfer of new and appropriate technology. We intend, moreover, to pursue efforts designed to improve our bilateral and multilateral relations with all our partners to ensure greater understanding for and commitment to our programme of national reconstruction. This programme essentially addresses urgent actions and steps for rehabilitation, and their highly humanitarian nature deserves the unconditional support of the international community. This Government programme comprises the following priorities: infrastructure for transportation and communication, agriculture, health and social services, national education, job creation and the elimination of unemployment, safety and protection of individuals and property and, in addition, peace and national and regional stability. In the four months in which we have been leading the State, we have been able to achieve encouraging results, in particular at the political and diplomatic levels. These include ensuring the safety of the population through the restoration of justice; guaranteeing the right of ownership; efforts to eradicate corruption, which had become institutionalized in our country; the reintegration of the military personnel of the former armed forces of Zaire and the establishment of a national republican army; the establishment of good regional relations, in particular through the holding in Kinshasa of a summit of Heads of State designed to work on strengthening regional cooperation; the working visits to Kinshasa by the Presidents of Uganda, Rwanda, Eritrea and Tanzania, as well as the visits of the Congolese Head of State to Angola, South Africa, Rwanda, Namibia and Zambia. Furthermore, our Government has participated in meetings held in the subregion on specific regional issues. We should also note that President Kabila has been consulted by the actors in the current crisis in Brazzaville. 16 Economic steps include overcoming inflation and the revaluation of the local currency, the decline in food prices, the provision of essentials to urban centres, a monetary reform project now under way and the restructuring of the central bank. Social and cultural steps include a resumption of cultural and artistic life, a resumption of primary and secondary education despite a difficult situation for parents who work for the State, providing drinking water for the capital and electrification and public road projects. In the debate at this session on proposals for reforming the United Nations, I would like, at the outset, to state that the strategic objective of all of the reforms envisaged must be to provide better conditions for the proper functioning of the Organization so that it can fulfil its founders’ dream of a lasting, democratic, responsible and credible Organization. The first stage of the effort must be to assess the impact of the cold war on the original system of collective security. Since the cold war paralysed the system set out in the Charter, the end of the cold war should create conditions favourable to the triumph of the collective security regime provided for in Chapter VII of the Charter. The second stage will be to analyse why the continual progress of preventive diplomacy is accompanied by inefficiencies at the operational level in peacekeeping and peace-building. Furthermore, we must also consider the political powers of the main agent of preventive diplomacy to ensure that they conform to institutional limits. Our position with regard to the administrative reforms of the United Nations and the enlargement of the Security Council is that of Africa as a whole, as set out and defended by the Secretary-General of the Organization of African Unity. We are opposed to cosmetic reforms and to having members of the Security Council acting as mere figureheads. Our interest in reform should not make us forget the numerous conflict situations and threats to peace and international security throughout the world. Today Africa continues to occupy centre stage with regard to armed conflicts. Central Africa in particular has become a powder keg as a result of uncontrolled armed bands crossing almost all our borders, bands who, in the guise of refugees, are destabilizing the entire region. That is why we urgently appeal to the United Nations to do everything it can to end its present policy of burying its head in the sand, which can only result in weakening and destabilizing those, such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo, that have a role to play in the subregion. It is now clear that the crisis in Brazzaville, for example, is increasingly escaping the control of the parties to the conflict, and requires an urgent Security Council meeting. This crisis is unacceptable to the Congolese in both Brazzaville and Kinshasa. The Democratic Republic of the Congo, which has been subjected to deliberate shelling from neighbouring Brazzaville, which has been receiving refugees fleeing that country and which, since 29 and 30 September 1997 has suffered loss of human life, without being a party to the conflict, believes that the conflict has reached the limit of what can be tolerated, given the damage to its people and the threat it represents to regional and international peace and security. Just this morning we learned that more shells had fallen on Kinshasa, and this is unacceptable to the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The Central African Republic, which was badly battered by the rebellions in the Kasayi camp, must benefit from special cooperation from the United Nations to strengthen the Inter-African Mission to Monitor the Implementation of the Bangui Agreements, which is already operational on the ground. We firmly support the Lusaka Protocol, which is designed to re-establish peace and stability in Angola, a country with which we share a frontier of 2,600 kilometres. We therefore demand that the Protocol be strictly respected, and we condemn the repeated violations of its terms by UNITA. With regard to Burundi, we support the Arusha process, and adhere to the principle of democracy and security for all. In Sierra Leone, we hope to see a return to legality and the democratic exercise of power. We welcome the return of peace to Liberia, and the electoral victory of President Charles Taylor, and we hope that this experience will become a landmark and a point of reference for neighbouring States. The march towards democratization in Africa is inevitable and irreversible, but the road is one which only the Africans can set out on and walk down. I should like to hail here the American initiative to hold a ministerial-level meeting of the Security Council 17 to strengthen the capacity of African States to build peace through conflict prevention and management and by the improvement of good governance. The situation in the Middle East remains worrying. The Democratic Republic of the Congo urges all parties strictly to respect the Madrid and Oslo agreements, and in all cases to give priority to genuine dialogue. The prize of peace is won through tolerance. In the Far East, the reunification of Korea is a peaceful process that the Democratic Republic of the Congo fully supports. We hope for a positive outcome to the negotiations under way. Global peace is also threatened by environmental problems and by the continuation of the debt crisis of the least developed countries. The Democratic Republic of the Congo, which has significant global forest reserves, appeals to the international community for assistance in preserving its forest heritage. My country, whose foreign debt amounts to $14 billion, calls upon the major donors to demonstrate greater solidarity and adopt a more responsible and consistent approach to possible solutions. In the specific case of the Congo, which has been devastated, we wonder what good those billions of dollars did, as the country is in a state of total ruin — without roads, bridges, schools or hospitals. It is public knowledge that these funds never reached the Congo, and were for the most part deposited in American, European and Asian banks. That is why we call for the pure and simple cancellation of this debt; if necessary, we will request the cooperation of the United Nations for the restoration to the Congo of the $14 billion, now circulating in the world. We should like here solemnly to express our gratitude to the Governments of the Republic of South Africa, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Swiss Confederation and the United States for their cooperation in this matter, and hope that everything possible will be done for a positive outcome to the processes under way. In any case, the insolvency of my country and of other African countries is a global problem that requires consistent global treatment. It is therefore unfortunate that international cooperation in this area is only serving to intensify it and, furthermore, that any new contribution to national reconstruction is conditional on the payment of arrears. The Democratic Republic of the Congo supports all the initiatives and recommendations relating to the restoration of cultural property confiscated in the past by colonial Powers. In the same spirit, we support the establishment of an international criminal court, which would have competence over political economic, social, cultural and humanitarian crimes. Disarmament issues and their relationship with development are also on our foreign policy agenda. While welcoming the Secretary-General’s initiative to establish a new department for disarmament, the Democratic Republic of the Congo would have liked to have been apprised of how matters stood regarding the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva to avoid duplication of efforts. We hope that the United Nations will continue its efforts to guarantee a world free from nuclear weapons and that efforts aimed at general and complete disarmament in regard to conventional weapons bear fruit. The Democratic Republic of the Congo is a party to the Ottawa process on anti-personnel landmines. It condemns both manufacturers and users and hopes that condemnation of these weapons will go hand in hand with a genuine will to find international settlements for civil wars and to prosecute individuals responsible for those wars for crimes against humanity. I could not conclude my remarks without mentioning the general situation in the Great Lakes region, particularly the Rwandan refugees and the United Nations commission of inquiry on the allegations of massacres in the east of our country. The world campaign for human and humanitarian rights orchestrated against the Alliance of Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Congo and against the Government of His Excellency the President, Mr. Laurent-Désiré Kabila, in some ways recalls the deplorable and unfortunate United Nations intervention in the Congo in 1960. Our position is that the problem of refugees, whether they be Hutus or not, must remain a humanitarian issue and can in no way become a political issue. Therefore, any attempt to politicize it should be condemned because it goes against the spirit and letter of the Charter of our Organization. 18 With particular regard to the question of the alleged Rwandan refugees and the allegations that they were massacred, the Democratic Republic of the Congo continues to repeat, for anyone who wants to listen, that it has nothing to hide. Moreover, we have never concealed our moral concern regarding the Rwandan women and children who were taken hostage and fell victim to Rwandan extremists bent on genocide. What we do dispute in this matter is the fact that the former Rwandan armed forces and the militia, the INTERAHAMWE, are classed as refugees, which totally disregards the provisions of the Geneva Conventions and the relevant convention of the Organization of African Unity (OAU). Here, I should like to call to witness the Security Council, some of whose members rightly refused to subscribe to the idea of an international intervention force led by Canada for the simple reason that the real Rwandan refugees had returned to Rwanda. The armed bands who went from Kibu as far as Congo (Brazzaville), the Central African Republic and regions of Angola controlled by the União Nacional para a Independência Total de Angola (UNITA) are not refugees. They are hostage-takers and no one has the right to ignore that. In two and a half years, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and all kinds of humanitarian agencies could not repatriate more than 100 refugees to Rwanda. While they spent more than $1 billion, to the tune of $1.2 million per day, the Alliance of Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Congo was able to assist in the voluntary repatriation, in conditions of full security and dignity, of over 700,000 Rwandan refugees in four days. In the same way, the Alliance of Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Congo had called more than three ceasefires for humanitarian reasons. That same movement had opened humanitarian corridors — road, rail and air — to allow for and assist the repatriation of Rwandan refugees. That same movement had fed and cared for the so-called refugees, whom today it is accused of having massacred, in the equatorial forest. The Democratic Republic of the Congo is a place of refuge and anyone who is being persecuted anywhere in the world will find asylum there in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the 1951 Geneva Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and the relevant OAU convention. Thus, the Congolese from Brazzaville were welcomed shortly after the Rwandans were repatriated but, paradoxically, (spoke in English) these refugees did not receive the same attention from the international community as the Rwandan refugees. They happen to be second-class refugees. (spoke in French) Can people at least realize what kind of and how great a toll the presence of Rwandan refugees, particularly of members of the former Rwandan armed forces and INTERAHAMWE, in the Congo will have taken? Has anyone taken the trouble to assess the impact of the activities of these phoney refugees on the territory of the Congo? And since we could not speak of refugees without mentioning the United Nations commission of inquiry, I would like to make the most of this opportunity to draw the attention of this Assembly to the clearly humanitarian nature of the mission of the commission. In no way should it turn itself into a political mission, as it has been trying to do so far. It should be understood that its deployment in the field must not violate our independence and sovereignty. Our confidence in the international Organization is neither a sign of weakness nor a failure to see, in this particular case, that there are plans afoot to use these structures to undermine certain forces. The Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo has accepted, and I repeat, (spoke in English) we have accepted that the team can do its work and we are expecting it to go ahead and do the work. Our Government will do anything in its power to make sure that the team does its work. However, the team will then have to answer a certain number of questions, especially in the eastern part of our country. Mainly, who did what, when, why, with whose help? The team will have to tell us why the refugees were armed. The team will have to tell us who armed them. Why were they not disarmed? The team will have to tell us how many amongst the refugees were really refugees and how many were pseudo-refugees. The team will say how many Congolese people were butchered by these people who have been called refugees, but more importantly, the team will tell us if there was any continuation of Rwandese genocide on Congolese soil because, as the Assembly knows, the same people who committed genocide in Rwanda crossed the border with their arms, with their machetes, with their ideology, and they continued their work in our country. And, more importantly, the team will establish the 19 responsibility of everybody in that matter. But let me repeat again, our Government is willing to help the team, to give full access to the team, so that the team can go ahead and do its work. (spoke in French) I should like to conclude my statement today with a message from Mr. Laurent-Désiré Kabila, President of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which reads: “My country has lost a great deal of time because of the injustices of the cold war. My people ask only one thing: to build the well-being and prosperity they need, in full sovereignty and with respect for the sovereignty of others. We thank all those countries that are willing to assist us in our recovery. “We have no other ambition. We are only convinced that the world opinion that will satisfy us can come only from ourselves. What we ask of the other nations of the world is that they assist us in seeing that those who are not in agreement with our view of things cannot thwart us.” World peace is one and indivisible, and the principle of collective responsibility obliges all of us to take that into account.  ﻿Allow me to begin by congratulating you, Sir, on behalf of the delegation of Suriname, on your election to the presidency of the fifty- second session of the General Assembly. I am convinced that under your wise and able guidance our deliberations will be fruitful. May I express our appreciation for the excellent manner in which your predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail, presided over the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. I also take this opportunity to convey our profound admiration of and gratitude for the dynamic leadership of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, in pursuance of the noble objectives of this unique world body in this era in which new challenges and opportunities face humankind. We salute his efforts to bring our Organization more in line with the pressing demands of our time. When we express our feelings of solidarity with the less fortunate of the world, our sympathy also goes out to the Government and the people of the sister island of Montserrat as they suffer the consequences of a geologic disaster in these dismal days of their history. The important support that the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) countries, within their limited possibilities, have given to Montserrat to help alleviate the pain merits recognition and is worth following. I therefore seize this opportunity to appeal to other countries to fulfil their moral obligations to our brothers and sisters in need. Within the context of an increasingly integrated and complex global economic system of production and distribution, trade liberalization and globalization of financial markets, the major thrust of the development strategy of the Government of the Republic of Suriname lies in the revitalization and strengthening of production and export capacity as the main engines of growth while maintaining financial and monetary stability. In response to the need to diversify the export base of the economy, a good deal of impetus was given this year to the expansion of the mining sector by the recent opening of an oil refinery that will enable my country to meet domestic demands for heavy oil, by new gold-mining operations and by the commercial exploitation of other mineral deposits. Furthermore, we have initiated the construction of two important bridges. Together with the rehabilitation of vital infrastructure, including access roads in the coastal area and to the interior of the country and the operation of a ferry service with our neighbouring country, the cooperative Republic of Guyana, these bridges will offer new opportunities for trade, house construction, transport, tourism and employment in Suriname. It is often said that progress in building lasting democracies and stronger market economies is increasingly threatened by slow growth, weak institutions, poverty and wealth inequality. Persistent economic hardships for the majority of the people can likewise damage the credibility of democratic Governments. The struggle against poverty and social injustice is therefore the greatest challenge to the Government of Suriname. In our ceaseless struggle as a small nation to achieve people-centred development goals, the present Government, within the international constraints of sustainable development and environmental protection, will continue its endeavours to increase domestic efficiency and international competitiveness in agriculture, production, manufacturing and export, as well as to strengthen the institutions of local entrepreneurship, with a view to ensuring political stability and fostering equitable economic growth. Bearing in mind that which has been referred to as the dark side of the globalization process, and with a view to avoiding marginalization and creating outsiders to the global economy, it is imperative that we continue to recognize the small, fragile and vulnerable economies of the Caribbean, including Suriname, and of other regions in the world. This should guarantee that they will be given special treatment during a transitional period in which they will still require exceptions, waivers and other transitional arrangements in the broader context of international trade liberalization and economic integration. Hence the Surinamese Government attaches special significance to the May 1997 Bridgetown Declaration of Principles on Caribbean Community-United States cooperation in responding to the challenges that the new millennium poses for our region, and it is looking forward to an expeditious implementation of the Plan of Action appended thereto. We also attach great importance to the timely implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States and are looking forward to the 1998 review session of the Commission on Sustainable Development on outstanding chapters and issues of the Programme of Action. The Government of Suriname welcomes the call of the United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs for a 6 renewed and concerted international commitment to a forward-looking drug strategy for the twenty-first century and, to that end, the convocation of a special session of the General Assembly in June 1998. That session will prepare a global drug-control strategy and new ways to promote international and regional cooperation in the fight against the worldwide drug problem that undermines in particular the economic and social prospects of many small developing nations. While Suriname cannot be considered a drug- producing country, it is afflicted by this scourge through producers from outside the country who misuse its territory as a transit point for drugs bound for other countries, where the availability and extensive use of drugs is creating a huge, profitable market that threatens the well-being of so many and feeds the greed of but a few. To demonstrate our resolve to eradicate this evil from our territory, we will join with neighbouring countries to coordinate our strategies and efforts. For that purpose Suriname will convene, at the beginning of 1998 and in concert with Guyana, Brazil, France and Venezuela, an international conference on defining strategies and actions against the misuse and illicit trafficking of drugs. We appeal to those who are also committed to this struggle to assist us in this endeavour. Reflecting on our special session on the implementation of Agenda 21, the Government of Suriname applauds the adoption in July of this year of the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21, including the statement of commitment by Member countries. We expect the next comprehensive review of its implementation in the year 2002 to demonstrate greater measurable progress in achieving sustainable development. The Government of Suriname feels concern about the issue of finance for sustainable development. Since Rio 1992, only four developed States have fulfilled their Agenda 21 commitment towards the target of providing 0.7 per cent of their gross national product as official development assistance. As it was agreed that for most developing countries official development assistance is still a main source of external development financing and cannot generally be replaced by private capital inflows, I should like to urge the donor community to intensify efforts to reverse the declining trend in official development assistance as we experience it today. The situation in the Middle East continues to pose a great threat to international peace and security. The Oslo agreement of 1993, signed by the two parties, embodies the hope that a lasting solution to this conflict is within reach, since it establishes the basis for a lasting peace in the Middle East. We feel that the peace process must be carried on urgently, with a well-defined timetable. We therefore support the co-sponsors of the peace process in their effort to bring the parties back to the negotiating table with a view to securing durable peace in the Middle East. Allow me to make a few remarks on the important issues of the reform and strengthening of the United Nations and of more equitable representation in the Security Council. Since its birth, our Organization has grown from 5 to 185 Member States, but the Security Council still reflects the world as it was in 1945. The Government of Suriname therefore underscores the need for an expansion of, and a more equitable representation in, the membership of the Security Council. The reform of the Security Council should not only make the Council’s membership more representative and more legitimate but should also enhance its transparency and openness towards other Member States and non- members in order to convey its important messages in an amplified and more effective manner. Hence we welcome the recent measures taken by the Council to enhance its transparency. The present Government of Suriname takes the position that the countries of the Caribbean and Latin America should be included in any agreed expansion of the Council, within the context of the principles of equitable geographic distribution and the sovereign equality of States. The reform should not result in discriminatory treatment between the developed and the developing countries. We furthermore consider as integral parts of Security Council reform its expansion, the reform of its working methods and the issue of the veto. The veto should preferably be restricted to issues falling under Chapter VII of our Charter. Increased globalization and the emergence of new challenges and threats require closer cooperation between States at a global level. Within this context, it is of utmost importance to reaffirm and maintain the role of the United Nations as a major actor in cooperation between States, especially development cooperation. In this light, my Government welcomes the initiative of the Secretary- General to propose a comprehensive reform programme to the General Assembly which is geared towards strengthening the efficiency of the Secretariat and fixing 7 a stronger focus on economic and social development issues. The Government of Suriname supports in general the reform proposals of the Secretary-General and their key elements. These reform proposals as a whole represent a timely and welcome initiative, given the fact that in today’s world the need has progressively increased for global common action on a number of pressing problems, such as the eradication of poverty, humanitarian emergencies, refugee problems, climate change and desertification, diminishing official development assistance funding, drugs, nuclear disarmament, the implementation of Agenda 21, democracy and the maintenance of peace and security in various regions of the world. All this calls for a stronger United Nations to promote a renewed multilateral cooperation based on common interests and shared responsibility. We must empower the United Nations now so that it can confront the global challenges of the twenty-first century. One of the best ways to re-establish trust in the United Nations is to enhance the impact of United Nations development activities at the country level. In this regard the Surinamese Government endorses the proposal to establish a “United Nations House”. In closing, I wish to reiterate that the Government of the Republic of Suriname is committed to contributing to the ongoing process of reform of our Organization. We see the reform proposals of the Secretary-General as a first step in the right direction, although much more is left to be done. We feel that the United Nations system should be made stronger, more effective and more efficient in order to meet the priorities set by all its Members — not just the priorities of the economically strong and the militarily powerful but, especially, the priorities of the weak and vulnerable States, which should be prevented from becoming outsiders in the global economy.   ﻿I take this opportunity to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session. I wish also to thank your predecessor, Ambassador Razali of Malaysia, for the skill and commitment with which he guided our work during the last session. I convey to the Secretary-General and his staff my high appreciation of the often difficult initiatives they have taken this year to promote peace not only between peoples but also within nations. These initiatives accent the Organization’s role and its principles, to which I am pleased to reaffirm the commitment of the people of Seychelles. There have also been initiatives to promote development and to protect the environment and the weak among us, and to help stateless individuals and refugees from countries that are often marginalized. We need a consistent, effective United Nations backed by the funds necessary for it to carry out its mandate. The Secretary-General has proposed a series of reforms along these lines, and the Republic of Seychelles firmly backs that initiative. Seychelles is a small island State. Yet we have done all in our power to integrate ourselves fully into international life and into the world economy. In that connection, Seychelles has requested membership of the World Trade Organization; it is already a member of the Indian Ocean Commission and the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa, and recently joined the Southern African Development Community. Seychelles has thus adopted an open economic policy designed to be attractive; yet we continue to face the handicaps characteristic of an island State, exacerbated by a lack of human and natural resources and by the limits of our domestic markets. Following the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, held in Barbados in 1994, and in accordance with resolutions adopted in international forums, the international 6 community is heeding the appeal of small island States for help in laying and strengthening the foundations of sustainable development. Like larger countries, small island States have the same aspirations, the same needs — and even more so. Yet they are disadvantaged by their greatly limited means and their structurally fragile economies. That is why it would be more equitable to identify specific criteria that would integrate them harmoniously into the process of global cooperation and economic development on both the bilateral and the multilateral levels. Recently, Seychelles has experienced remarkable climatic setbacks. Unceasing torrential rains of unusual intensity have caused loss of life, flooding, landslides and the destruction of homes and of infrastructure of all kinds. They also threaten the environment on which our lifestyle depends and our ecosystem, especially in coastal areas. For a small State striving to keep pace with development, an unexpected upheaval, with all its economic and other consequences, can have far-reaching effects that are not immediately evident. I should like to take this opportunity to thank the Department of Humanitarian Affairs for having quickly dispatched an evaluation mission to take stock not only of the damage done but of the future threats such an upheaval poses, given the climatic change under way on a global level. Moreover, that mission was followed by the launching of an appeal to the international community for assistance. The people of the Seychelles are very grateful for all these actions. In conclusion, I should like to express the hope that the future of our planet will bring vast improvements, notwithstanding the numerous difficulties that loom on the horizon. The United Nations, through its initiatives and the joint efforts of all peoples, will most surely achieve that goal. ﻿Let me first of all congratulate the President on his well- deserved election. It is a source of satisfaction to us that the President of his country, Ukraine, Mr. Leonid Kuchma, is on this very day starting a state visit to Mexico. To the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, we extend our sincere gratitude for the extremely dynamic way in which he is discharging his important responsibilities, and particularly for his significant contribution to the process of reform of the Organization. The work of this session of the General Assembly will cover the main items on the international agenda. Allow me to begin this statement by referring to those which are of particular significance to my country. In relation to the topic of disarmament, significant steps have recently been taken. Some prominent ones have been the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear- Test-Ban Treaty, the approval of a Convention prohibiting 22 anti-personnel mines, and the forthcoming conclusion of an inter-American convention against the illicit traffic in arms, munitions and explosives. Also prominent at the regional level are the efforts the Rio Group has decided to undertake towards beginning consultations with a view to establishing criteria for self- regulation in the purchase and transfer of certain types of sophisticated conventional weapons. Latin America is one of the regions with the lowest military expenditures in the world, and there will be no grounds for asserting that an arms race exists among our countries. There is, nonetheless, agreement to prevent this from happening, and, accordingly, we hope that the meeting to be convened in Cancun next January by the Rio Group itself, with the participation of all its member States, will attain its objectives. Despite all these advances, we reiterate our concern at the lack of tangible nuclear disarmament measures, and we stress that the issue continues to be the responsibility of the international community as a whole, and not the exclusive province of the nuclear Powers. Accordingly, we regret that the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice of 8 July 1996, which called attention to the illegality of the use of nuclear weapons and the obligation to negotiate nuclear disarmament measures, has not been taken into account by the main nuclear-weapon States. It is appropriate to recall that when the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons was indefinitely extended, a series of commitments was drawn up with a view to making progress towards nuclear disarmament, but so far not even the most minimal progress has been made. In an effort to break the impasse, Mexico, along with other countries, submitted to the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva a programme of action, in which we called for the consideration and analysis of certain concrete disarmament measures with all the seriousness they deserve. To the same end, we support increasing the number of nuclear-weapon-free zones, along the lines of the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America — the Treaty of Tlatelolco. Mexico will continue to support the Brazilian initiative to consolidate the southern hemisphere as a nuclear-weapon-free zone. With reference to the Convention banning the use of anti-personnel mines, it should be pointed out that the recent approval of that instrument in Oslo was the culmination of negotiations which had been conducted for one year within the framework of what is called the Ottawa process, as a result of an initiative by the Core Group formed by Mexico, Canada and other countries in October 1996. The Government of Mexico considers that the use of this category of weapons constitutes a flagrant violation of international humanitarian law, and that the only viable solution to the problems it poses is the total abolition of anti-personnel landmines and the destruction of those currently stockpiled. Mexico welcomes the result achieved, with the justified hope that the countries which still remain outside the process will join in it. Let us not continue to regard peace as an unattainable objective or a utopian dream. Peace is not only the absence of war, but a way of life which establishes as the norm cooperation among free and equal nations to overcome the problems that plague human beings in all corners of the world. Peace is and must be possible, because it is essential to us. Mexico views drug trafficking as a serious threat to its national security and to the health of humankind. We maintain that this phenomenon promotes violence, corruption and other unlawful activities, such as illegal arms-trafficking, money-laundering and the diversion of chemical precursors. Among the possibilities offered by international cooperation in this sphere, Mexico has been extremely active in signing bilateral agreements to combat drug trafficking and in participating in forums dealing with the subject, such as the Inter-American Commission for Drug Abuse and the Rio Group. To this must be added the important process initiated by Mexico for the purpose of holding, in June next year, a special session of the General Assembly devoted to the consideration of the world situation with regard to the illicit drug problem, so that concrete measures against drug-trafficking and its associated crimes can be agreed upon. We invite all the Member States of the United Nations to participate actively at the highest level in that special session. Mexico rejects repressive police measures to prevent and control migratory flows, convinced as we are that the use of such methods, far from resolving problems, clouds relations between frontier communities and many times leads to the abuse and mistreatment of migrants by the authorities responsible for applying migration policy. As part of an effort to seek multilateral solutions to this problem within the framework of the fifty-third session of the Commission on Human Rights, the Mexican delegation submitted a draft resolution on migrants and human rights, which was adopted by 23 consensus, both in the Commission and in the Economic and Social Council. On the basis of the Mexican initiative, the Commission on Human Rights decided to establish a group of experts to formulate recommendations on strengthening the promotion, protection and exercise of these rights. We have a well-founded hope that it will be possible to secure the establishment of a minimum standard of conduct for countries in relation to migrants, regardless of their legal status. Recently, in the states of Texas and Virginia of the United States of America, two Mexican citizens were executed after all the means of recourse that could be used to obtain the commutation of their death sentences had been exhausted. In neither of the two cases was the person concerned able to contact the consulate of his country at the time he was arrested. This was a flagrant violation of article 36 of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. This irregularity probably cost them their lives. There are 35 more Mexicans who have been sentenced to death in the United States, and a number of them did not have access to the consular protection to which they were entitled. The state of Texas went so far as to justify the omission by saying that it was not a party to the Convention in question. In the case of Virginia the State Department of the United States offered “profuse apologies” to the Government of Mexico after the Mexican national had been executed. Mexico wishes to denounce, in this highest forum of mankind, this appalling state of affairs. We shall be seeking an advisory opinion from the Inter-American Court of Human Rights on the legality of applying the death penalty when an international convention that affects due process has not been complied with. In our view, this violates the spirit and letter of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the American Declaration on the Rights and Duties of Man, the juridical importance of which has been recognized by the Court to which I have referred. We are convinced that at this session of the General Assembly — imbued with new leadership and having placed on its agenda a number of reports containing specific proposals for progress in the reform process, including the one submitted by the Secretary-General himself on 16 July this year — we are at the threshold of a new phase in the Organization's development. With the same resolve with which it has invariably welcomed any effort to raise international affairs to the sphere of law, Mexico, as a founding Member of the Organization, reiterates its full readiness to contribute to the efforts we shall have to make to face this challenge. For a number of years, when the issue of reform was discussed we were content to pursue the rationalization of the work of the United Nations through changes which did not entail amendments to its founding Charter. Nevertheless, the present juncture is so crucial that we need to analyse where the defects that have prevented us from being more efficient as an Organization are to be found, in order to redress them. I would like to reiterate some of the basic positions Mexico maintains on the subject of the reform of the Organization, while at the same time adding now some comments regarding the proposals made by the Secretary- General, as well as referring to some decisions which we have taken recently. We maintain that absolutely scrupulous respect for the principles of law embodied in the Charter, including in the decisions the Security Council has to take on matters affecting the peace and security of the world, is a fundamental rule of conduct of countries in their international relations. Since 1945 Mexico has attacked the very concept of a division between permanent and non-permanent members of the Security Council, basically because the existence of the two categories establishes a discriminatory situation — a situation which is exacerbated by the permanent members having been given the right of the veto, a privilege that has certainly been abused and has frequently prevented the Council from fulfilling its basic task. We also maintain that the need to increase the capacity of the United Nations to prevent conflicts and resolve those that exist requires not only the reform of the Security Council and its working methods, but also the strengthening of the mechanisms for resolving conflicts through peaceful means. With regard to the Secretary-General’s proposals, we welcome them and view with special interest the idea of strengthening the Secretariat by creating a post of Deputy Secretary-General and establishing a strategic planning unit. We do not believe, however, that the objective of cutting costs should guide the reform process. Avoiding duplication and implementing the programme of the Organization in an optimal way are the objectives that should guide our work. 24 Mexico has repeatedly maintained that the financial situation the Organization is experiencing stems from a failure to comply with the obligations derived from the Charter. The current financial situation has no link with the assessment system. The way to deal with it is by making full, timely and unconditional payments of the assessments the General Assembly assigns to Member States. If we must review the financial situation, then certainly all of us Member States are ready to do so, as long as the result is an equitable solution. The financial crisis of the Organization should not lead us to take decisions that distort the spirit of reform we share. Carried to the extreme, this logic would call for the designation of Ted Turner as a permanent member of the Security Council, with the right of veto. By the way, we appreciate Mr. Turner’s generosity. We view with concern some of the proposals made for merging subsidiary bodies of the Economic and Social Council — for example, the Commissions on Narcotic Drugs and Crime Prevention — which could in our view devalue the treatment accorded to these subjects. The merger of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Centre for Human Rights, on the other hand, would undoubtedly strengthen treatment of the subject. Thus, while we consider that the new tasks to be performed by the High Commissioner should be in conformity with the provisions of the international instruments in force and the guidelines of the competent bodies in this field, we strongly support this proposal. We also welcome Mary Robinson as High Commissioner. In relation to the reform of the Security Council, the Mexican Government wishes to draw particular attention to the following elements in the declaration adopted by the Heads of State and Government of the Rio Group on 24 August 1997 in Asunción, Paraguay, marking the first occasion on which that forum has conducted an in-depth exchange of views on this important issue. Reform of the Council is needed in order to correct the imbalances in its current composition, improve its decision-making mechanisms and make the conduct of its work more transparent. A reform resulting in treatment that discriminates between developed and developing countries would not be acceptable. The veto should be restricted, as a first step, to Chapter VII of the Charter. The expansion, the reform of working methods and the question of the veto form an integral part of the reform of the Security Council and should form parts of the same agreement; in other words, we view them as an indivisible whole. Lastly, the Heads of State and Government of the Rio Group reiterated their readiness to continue participating actively in the Working Group dealing with the subject, with a view to securing general agreement, and decided to give their Ministers for Foreign Affairs “responsibility for maintaining a broad dialogue on the issue which takes the regional interest into account and seeking understandings on the subject”. Representativeness, political legitimacy, the regional approach and consensus solutions are thus the elements that should guide the work being undertaken. To the extent that the above criteria are met, Mexico wants to make it clear that it is fully prepared to participate in an expanded, renewed and representative Security Council. Nevertheless, the reform of the Security Council must be a factor promoting cohesion and a catalyst of cooperation among countries. At present, there are so many and such diverse formulas that we run the risk of the issue causing divisions and tensions. Clearly, the international community has not yet found the formula for achieving consensus on this delicate matter. The issue calls for additional consultations and better definitions of the very meaning of reform. States cannot conceive of Security Council reform as a source of national prestige or a way of consolidating regional hegemonies. Any reform that is adopted must be inclusive and strengthen regional equilibriums, which are sometimes very fragile and very vulnerable. Today, the States Members of the United Nations appear, for the most part, to feel threatened more than imbued with hope by the proposals that are circulating with regard to the Security Council. A wave of lobbying and national and regional expectations has been unleashed in which the interests of the Organization itself are conspicuous by their absence. This is precisely the opposite of the spirit we want to achieve through reform. It would be paradoxical and unacceptable if this crucial challenge which the reform of the Security Council poses us were to result in a fragmenting of the United Nations at a time when unity of purpose and community of efforts are more important than ever. The issue is too important to be dealt with hastily. 25 The reform package proposed by the Secretary- General is capable of making rapid progress, supported by a broad consensus. The issue of the Security Council does not appear to have secured the same level of agreement. Let us make progress on the first and continue to reflect on the second.﻿First of all, Sir, let me congratulate you on your election to the presidency of the fifty-second session of the General Assembly. Your election is a reflection of the confidence and the hope that this body has in your abilities to guide this session to a successful conclusion. I would also like to take this opportunity to express my delegation’s profound gratitude and appreciation to your predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail, for the exemplary manner in which he carried out his responsibilities and steered the work of the General Assembly during his term as President. It is also my privilege to take this opportunity to extend, on behalf of my delegation and on my own behalf, a very warm welcome to the new Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan. We have no doubt that his long experience as an international civil servant and his vast knowledge of the United Nations system will give him all the insights he requires for carrying out his responsibilities fairly and firmly. He deserves every assistance and support from all Member States of the Organization. With great enthusiasm for capitalizing on the opportunities created by the end of the cold war, we embarked on a journey to revitalize the United Nations and to reform the way it functions, making it more effective and capable of playing the central role it is entitled to in maintaining the world order, and perhaps shaping a new world order for the future. However, as the discussions continue, the views remain far from consensus, even on the single issue of restructuring the Security Council, which I agree is important and pivotal. But at this point we should remind ourselves that in our approach to reform we should be covering the whole spectrum of political, social, economic and legal activities of the United Nations and its specialized agencies. It is rather disappointing that the focus is at present mainly on the restructuring of the Security Council. Furthermore, the proposals made so far on this issue are sadly inadequate, and many suggest the creation of a new form of idiosyncrasy. In the absence of a formula which is comprehensive and just, we may as well suggest the following. First, increase the number of non-permanent members in the Council to an appropriate level, reflecting the growth of the membership and its present diversity. Secondly, amend paragraph 2 of Article 23 of the Charter to enable the non-permanent member States to be re-elected for any number of consecutive terms, so that those who seek to occupy a seat in this important body on a continuing basis can do so as long as they enjoy the confidence and support of the Member States. Thirdly, encourage the permanent members of the Security Council to agree among themselves on an accord which will remove or at least minimize the common apprehension arising from the fear of their misusing the veto power. My delegation applauds the efforts of the Secretary- General to bring much needed reforms to the administrative and financial functioning of the Organization. The proposals that he submitted to the Assembly on 16 July 1997 deserve our careful consideration, as they contain far-reaching and constructive arrangements which will at least help the United Nations emerge from its present difficulties. The enthusiasm which followed the end of the cold war also provided us the opportunity to meet in several international conferences to deal with some of the issues of true concern to all of us. These issues include the environment, social development, population, women, human settlements and food security. At those meetings we adopted ambitious action plans, reaching the conclusion that sustainable development should be the core of the achievement of our objectives. Yet without the genuine and sincere will of the international community to honour their commitments, the action plans, which bear enormous price tags, cannot be implemented effectively. 11 This stark truth dominated the special session of the General Assembly in June this year, when we noted the lack of progress in the international action called for in the historic Agenda 21 of the 1992 Earth Summit. The emission of greenhouse gases is continuing unabated, polluting the environment and warming the global atmosphere more and more. If the latest predictions of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) on greenhouse-gas emissions and global warming were to come true, then by the year 2100 almost 80 per cent of the low-lying island countries, including my own, would be submerged in the sea. For the Maldives and other small island developing States, which are most affected by the degradation of the world’s environment, the lack of progress in international action is most lamentable. We are not only fearful of an impending danger, we are also anxious that unless the world acts now and swiftly, it may be too late for us to avoid environmental catastrophe. If we care to halt and reverse this lurking threat, we need the unwavering commitment and cooperation of the entire international community. And there is nothing we can do on our own. Ever since my President, Mr. Maumoon Abdul Gayoom, apprised this Assembly in 1987 of the impending environmental disaster that rising sea levels posed to our country, the Maldives has been warning vigorously, at national, regional and international levels, of this problem. Today I am happy to state that at the national level we are continuing successfully to create environmental awareness by involving non-governmental organizations and the private sector. We have also successfully implemented a few projects to protect and preserve the environment. For instance, under the two-million-tree national programme the people of the Maldives have planted eight trees per person in the last two years. I wonder what a spectacular impact we could have on our planet if we could plant eight trees per person in the entire world over the next two years. At the regional level, the Delhi Declaration of the Environment Ministers of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) stands as testimony to our regional efforts. The Declaration, which reflected the common position of our region on global environmental issues, was presented to this Assembly by President Gayoom at its nineteenth special session. Another important meeting of SAARC environment ministers is scheduled to be held this month in the Maldives. At the international level, we are working closely with the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) to pursue our cause. We attach the utmost importance to the swift and steady implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, and once again we call upon the developed countries to fulfil their commitments and pledges of support. In this connection, we call upon the industrialized countries to follow the examples set by the United Kingdom and the European Union during the nineteenth special session of the General Assembly and to commit themselves to legally binding and meaningful targets to reduce their greenhouse-gas emission levels. For the Maldives, a country that will be affected severely, if not fatally, by climate change, it is hard to accept a target below the 20 per cent reduction level by the year 2005, as contained in the AOSIS protocol, as a meaningful reduction. Last month the Maldives hosted the thirteenth session of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climatic Change, which was regarded not only as a very important meeting on the subject, but also a very timely one, as the world is looking forward eagerly and with great optimism to the forthcoming third session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Kyoto. My country and many other small States in the developing world, especially those among the least developed countries, have placed our trust in the United Nations to help us face and overcome the inherent constraints we have as we continue our quest towards progress and prosperity. We also look to the United Nations to develop policies and take effective measures to protect us from threats, whether economic or political, and alleviate our sufferings from environmental calamities. The fact is that we cannot on our own face the odds and that our economies are more vulnerable than those of larger and more prosperous States. Protection of the weaker should not be seen as a burden, but rather as a shared responsibility of all, recognizing the realities of our diversified membership in this Organization. While liberalization of the world economy may have boosted the prospects for some of the developing 12 countries to successfully integrate themselves into the new international trading arrangements, those with little access to the world market, capital and new technologies find themselves becoming marginalized, away from the mainstream of the world economy. The gap between the rich and the poor is continuing to grow unabated. Several developing countries, and particularly the least developed of them, still continue to suffer from endemic poverty, which is compounded by the severe debt burden and leads to political and economic dislocation. The overall decline in official development assistance over the years has aggravated the conditions of the least developed countries. Unless the developed countries fulfil their commitment to reach the United Nations accepted target of dedicating 0.7 per cent of gross national product to official development assistance and intensify their efforts to reverse the present downward trend, hopes for the least developed countries will remain as grim as ever. The Committee for Development Planning, at its thirty-first session, held in May this year, proposed in its report that the Maldives be graduated from the least developed countries list at the time of the next review in the year 2000, if we continue to prosper at the present rate. We are overwhelmed to see our development efforts being rewarded with a decision of expulsion. Over the years, my country has successfully cleared numerous hurdles in the path of socio-economic development, despite its limited resources. We were able to improve the per capita income, raise the standard of living of the people and provide basic services to the community and individuals at higher levels than many others in the least developed country category. This success was in large measure due to the stable political climate that we enjoyed, which in turn provided us the opportunity to implement carefully planned, action- oriented policies and strategies. At the same time, we could not have achieved these happy results without the support we received from friendly countries and multilateral organizations. However, if one were to consider these few achievements against the background of an extremely fragile economy deprived of natural resources, and a high dependency on tourism and fisheries — both of which are susceptible to global economic change and environmental and other external factors — the whole scenario could easily change from a happy and promising one to an obscure and insecure one. The vulnerability of our economy compels us to continue to depend on external resources, to build infrastructures that we cannot build on our own and to develop our own needed human resources for further development. Furthermore, the smallness of our countries has also made us vulnerable to the activities of drug-trafficking, money-laundering, terrorism and other forms of organized crime carried out by criminals who are looking for new territories to operate from. We therefore need to remain close to our development partners in a relationship of trust, which is far beyond kindness and charity. Therefore, my delegation would like to stress the importance of developing and applying a vulnerability index for the small island developing States as a basic and meaningful criterion for determining the status of least developed countries, recalling the content and the spirit of resolution 51/183. I cannot overemphasize the important role that the regional organizations are playing in international relations: fostering mutual trust and understanding and opening up greater prospects for the promotion of peace, stability and socio-economic cooperation within the region. The activities of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC), to which my country proudly belongs, are no exception. In fact, I am happy to state that the ninth SAARC summit, held in the Maldives in May this year, has adopted far-reaching and bold initiatives that will bring the countries of South Asia closer to each other and enhance further cooperation between them in the economic and technical fields. Among other important decisions, we have pledged to eradicate poverty from our region as early as possible, preferably by the year 2002. We have joined hands to accelerate our efforts to achieve trade liberalization and establish a free-trade area by the year 2001. We have also, for the first time, decided to begin informal political consultations in order to enhance and foster good- neighbourly relations, relieve tension and build trust and confidence between and among Member States. The alarming level of tension that exists on the international political scene is of utmost concern to us. In the recent past, we have witnessed in various regions of 13 the world the reigniting of old conflicts the emergence of new and serious ones that possess the intensity to stretch the United Nations to its limits. The dangerous developments unfolding in the region of the Middle East have brought into question once again the credibility and effectiveness of the United Nations. The present Israeli Government’s arrogance towards and utter disregard for United Nations resolutions and the agreements that they themselves reached with the Palestinians under the Oslo accords have shattered the little hope that the people of Israel, Palestine and the international community at large had for a lasting solution to this age-old conflict. Recent events have drastically diminished the confidence that is so essential for the success of the process, leaving us to wonder if peace will ever come to this region. The General Assembly met twice in emergency session this year to consider the issue. At those sessions, the international community almost unanimously rallied behind the Middle East peace process and demonstrated its genuine and unwavering support. While my delegation fully shares the view that continued negotiations in good faith between the two parties is essential for a permanent solution to the conflict, we strongly believe that the United Nations also has an important and crucial role to play in the peace process. The decisions of the General Assembly and the Security Council must be respected and fully implemented without any preconditions. We call on both parties to respect the agreements reached so far and to exercise maximum restraint in resorting to activities that may undermine the peace process. The situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina may have faded a little from the headlines of the international press, but we must realize that our job will not be complete unless and until the perpetrators of genocide and other brutal crimes in that country are brought to justice. In the field of disarmament and arms control, the international community has achieved considerable success. The indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) and the entry into force of the Chemical Weapons Convention are testimony to this. The Maldives attaches utmost importance to the efforts of global and regional disarmament and arms control, and vehemently supports them. It was in this spirit that we signed the CTBT two days ago. Contrary to our expectations, the era of peace and economic prosperity of the post-cold-war era has so far proved elusive. Outbreaks of violence and ethnic strife in several parts of the world have precipitated unbelievable levels of human suffering. Conflicts within States have crossed national boundaries and ignited conflicts of international proportions. Unless the United Nations is equipped to act swiftly on such symptoms of rupture, large numbers of people will remain in the shadow of conflicts. We should redouble our efforts to deliver on the promise of peace, human rights, fundamental freedoms and economic prosperity contained in the Charter of this Organization. The United Nations should not be solely a political forum. It was meant to cover the wide spectrum of all human activities with institutions for social as well as economic matters. The disparities vividly observed around the world, a half century after the creation of the United Nations, prove that none of the institutions has diminished in importance. They were created to remedy these imbalances among States and to contribute to justice, equality and peace. They were established to build and consolidate a climate of cooperation, to help each other on the basis of moral and ethical obligations and not merely of charity. They were erected to help the poor — not just some of them, while neglecting others; to help children — not just some of them, while neglecting others; to consolidate human rights — not just some aspects of it, while neglecting others; and to further peace and prosperity for all mankind — not just for certain segments of humanity. If we want the United Nations to perform the duties that we have entrusted to it, then we should ensure that we honour our financial obligations to it. My delegation is convinced that without a firm and sound financial footing, even our reform efforts will be totally meaningless. ﻿Before delivering the message of the Government of Rwanda to the General Assembly, allow me to follow the Heads of State and fellow Ministers who have spoken from this rostrum and express to the President our very sincere congratulations on his outstanding election. We also pay a well-deserved tribute to his eminent predecessor, who displayed devotion, skill and readiness to serve during the last session. Our warmest and fraternal congratulations also go to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for whom this session of the General Assembly is his first in that office. At the fiftieth anniversary session of the United Nations we took the opportunity to express loudly and clearly our views with regard to the essential reforms to be carried out within the United Nations. We welcome the proposals made by the Secretary-General, and we assure him of our support and cooperation. We also made proposals on Security Council reform. We will continue to make our contribution and lend our support to the collective efforts aimed at ensuring greater democracy in the Council. The Government of Rwanda also wishes to take this opportunity to express its great satisfaction at the appointment of Mrs. Mary Robinson as United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. We assure both her and the Secretary-General of our assistance and cooperation. At this session the Government of Rwanda wishes to make its modest contribution to our consideration of some matters of concern both to Africa and to the entire international community. These primarily relate to the difficulties encountered in the process of bringing to life a new Africa and problems related to the prevention, management and resolution of conflicts in Africa. We shall also offer some thoughts on how our peoples may enjoy a relatively smooth passage into the next millennium. We will conclude with an appeal for international solidarity for Rwanda and the Rwandan people. The hope of the peoples of Africa and the third world is first of all for an understanding of their real problems, and today that understanding must be a priority. Much of the international community supports the new political order in Africa and the new African leadership and leaders who wish to create new realities for a new Africa. We had the opportunity and pleasure, at the special meeting of the Security Council on Africa held on 25 September under the presidency of the Secretary of State of the United States, of hearing comments in support of the new African leadership. We stand firmly together. The others, those who do not trust in Africa and the Africans, who attempt to hinder our continent’s efforts to free itself from neocolonialism and dictatorships, who are today trying to discredit and undermine our leaders at any cost, they are the ones we will obviously be forced to deal with when we come to them. I should like now to speak of the problems of conflict prevention and conflict resolution in Africa and other third world countries. Again, we extend our warmest thanks to the Security Council for having taken the positive initiative of convening a ministerial-level meeting on Africa on 25 September. Our contribution, beyond general considerations and some specific cases, will focus primarily on identifying the underlying causes of conflicts in Africa, conflicts which in turn create the economic and political recessions of which we in our continent — and elsewhere in certain third world countries as well — are aware on almost a daily basis. Africa and the third world in general are suffering from various ills, principal among which are ignorance, poverty, bad political leadership, coups d’état and foreign intervention. Those are the ills that have eaten away at Africa, continue to eat away at it and are the sources of every conflict on our continent. Ignorance, it is said, is the root of all evils. Poverty is the cause of all misfortune. What United Nations programme will combat ignorance and poverty in Africa and the countries of the third world, and when will these two terrible ills that ravage our continent be cured? Bad political leadership in Africa has led many countries to ruin and even led to the first genocide on the African continent, which occurred in Rwanda from April to July 1994. The United Nations was present with a military force of 2,500 men, who packed up and left, abandoning the Rwandan people to the mercy of the 26 Interahamwe militiamen of the erstwhile single party and armed forces of the day. The planning and carrying out of the genocide was the ignoble act of a bad political leadership that viewed the ignorance and poverty of the peoples of Rwanda — and, consequently, of the peoples of Africa and the third world — as a political asset to consolidate and perpetuate its dictatorship in power or to usurp power. We hope that the United Nations will support the new political order in Africa and its new leadership, and that it will oppose any manoeuvre aimed at using United Nations structures to nip in the bud the new political order that is emerging on our continent. The conflicts of which we are all aware in Africa today are the bitter fruit of the famous so-called Africa of the Generals that emerged in the mid-1960s. Those coups d’état sapped Africa with all their attendant tragedies, of which all here are only too keenly aware. What are our strategies for fighting coups d’état in Africa today? What are the strategies of the United Nations for eradicating this scourge, whose effects are realized by its creators only when they themselves fall victim to it? All of the coups d’état in Africa since 1965, whose rotten fruits we are harvesting today, were fomented by certain Western capitals in their own interests and to the detriment of the African people. Today, unfortunately, foreign manipulation is continuing in Africa, creating a new cycle of coups d’état in Africa. We urge the United Nations resolutely to attack the five scourges I have just named, which still infect Africa and are the source of all the conflicts on our continent. These problems exist and we are familiar with them. Let us not make them taboo — let us talk about them within this prestigious building; let us talk about them in the Security Council. That, perhaps, would mark the beginning of improved conflict prevention and resolution in Africa. We cannot close this chapter on African conflicts without referring specifically to some that worry us more than others. I am referring in particular to the Central African Republic, where we feel the United Nations should be on its toes and assist a country in which the keepers of the old order and their opportunistic acolytes are using violence against an elected Government. I am also referring to Congo (Brazzaville), where precisely the same scenario as in the Central African Republic is being played out on a scale far larger than in the latter country. In our humble opinion, the United Nations should also send a clear and unambiguous message to the Comorians of the island of Anjouan that the Comoros is a State Member of the United Nations and that its unity and integrity are not negotiable. We ask the parties concerned to work with the Organization of African Unity (OAU) to find an appropriate solution to their problem. Western Sahara strikes a strong note of hope in the area of decolonization. We welcome and encourage the due implementation of the agreements that have just been signed between the Saharan Arab Democratic Republic and the Kingdom of Morocco to promote the process of self-determination and independence for the Saharan people. In Somalia, the Government of the Rwandese Republic urges all the parties to the conflict to promote dialogue under the aegis of the OAU and the Intergovernmental Authority on Development. Two years from the advent of the new millennium, we all have the ultimate duty of leading our peoples to the year 2000 without setback or fear of the unknown, unlike the people of the year 997 as they approached the eve of the second millennium. The twentieth century, leading into the awaited third millennium, has deeded to us the two most horrendous genocides in the history of humanity: the genocide of the Jews during the Second World War and the genocide of the Rwandans in 1994. Will we cross the threshold of the third millennium with the same racist graffiti covering the walls of our cities and airport corridors? Will those with uneasy consciences continue forever to play dumb with regard to the Rwandan genocide, the very first in the history of our continent? Will religious fundamentalism thrive at the cost of human lives? Extreme selfishness, despair, suicide, racism, crime, terrorism, drugs, paedophilia, battered women, rape: Are we going to bring all this luggage with us into the third millennium? What are we doing now? What are our strategies to eradicate all these evils? Resignation? Fatalism? Will the third millennium hold anything to shock us? We all claim to govern on behalf of our respective peoples. What actions are we undertaking today to ensure that they advance calmly, smoothly, without panic or anxiety into the year 2000? If we do nothing, how will we explain it to them on the eve of 1 January 2000 or on 27 the first day of the year 2000? Will we use the language of cynicism, pain, realism, politics, diplomacy or ritual — in just enough to get them off our backs and hustle them along into the year 2000 as into a lifeboat? What strategies do the United Nations and its agencies, present throughout Africa and other countries of the third world, have to help the Governments and peoples that must confront the anxieties of passing from one century to another, one millennium to another? In my country, Rwanda, I see no sign of any such strategy, while the country is gripped by the many traumas born from the tearing, or rather the shredding, of the social fabric by the genocide of 1994. When the traumas of genocide are complemented by millennial anxieties, what is to become of such a people if it is not helped by increased international solidarity? I have seen no or almost no sign of such solidarity in all my travels, no hint of such a project. Apparently, no one is concerned. And yet, we are only 26 months from 1 January 2000. Why such indifference from countries and from the United Nations? Should not our concerns be those of the peoples on whose behalf we govern? We should be one step ahead and thereby allay them. Before closing, I wish to appeal to the General Assembly that the United Nations adopt a mini-Marshall Plan for the moral and physical rehabilitation and reconstruction of the first African country to have fallen victim to the catastrophe of genocide: Rwanda. This mini- Marshall Plan for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of post-genocide Rwanda was drafted by Ambassador Sahnoun, Special Representative for the Great Lakes region of the Secretaries-General of the United Nations and the OAU, at the request of the Rwandan Government of National Unity. We also make a ringing appeal to the United Nations and the entire international community to provide Rwanda with substantial assistance, as it has received since November 1996 more than 1.4 million repatriated persons — one fifth of its population — who had fled to the former Zaire, now the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Tanzania and Burundi. Following this mass return of refugees, famine has today struck heavily in over four of our provinces. For the victims of this famine, we request emergency food relief and development assistance for every sector of national life — agriculture, health, education, the social and socio-economic reintegration of the repatriated, the survivors of genocide, justice and the rehabilitation and reconstruction of basic infrastructures, including those for water, electricity and roads. As for the social and socio-economic reintegration of the repatriated, since November 1996 the Rwandan Government has been sending into the field teams led by two Ministers for each province and composed of other ministers, members of Parliament and high-level administrators. These field missions aim at supporting the local administrative authorities in their tasks of receiving and reintegrating the repatriates. The exercise has gone well and is still being successfully pursued. At the communal and municipal level, we have also created reception committees composed of local authorities and members of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. Unfortunately, some troublemakers have filtered in with the 1.4 million refugees who have recently returned to Rwanda. Since February 1997, these fugitives have been committing murders among the civilian population. They have primarily targeted the survivors of genocide, in order to do away with anyone who might be a witness in a court of law, and local authorities who are devoted to the cause of national unity and reconciliation. The Rwandan Government has taken the necessary measures to ensure the safety of the people in the north of the country, which has been the site of these murders. Again, results in this area have also been quite satisfactory. In fact, a month ago I organized a meeting of the entire diplomatic and consular community at Ruhengeri, one of the provinces in the north of the country. After that meeting the diplomats had the opportunity to visit any areas of Ruhengeri they chose. Likewise, before I came to New York for the General Assembly, Mr. Pasteur Bizimungu, President of the Republic of Rwanda, headed a meeting of ministers at Gisenyi, one of the country’s three northern provinces. After the meeting the President of the Republic and the members of the Government went into the field for three days. They visited and spoke with people from all sectors of the population, including peasants on communes and in municipalities and students and State officials who had been repatriated and who were participating in orientation seminars on the positive aspects of national unity, tolerance, reconciliation, respect for human life and 28 solidarity. They also spoke with local authorities who are working to train our people. The Government of Rwanda needs support for this exercise. It needs the assistance of the international community. Before concluding, we would like to say from this lofty rostrum that we welcome the progress made towards resolving the misunderstanding on the question of the International Commission of Inquiry sent to the Democratic Republic of the Congo, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Democratic Republic of the Congo announced at his press conference yesterday afternoon. The Rwandan Government therefore encourages those specifically involved in this matter — namely, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo — to work together to put an end to this problem. They have our confidence and support. In order to support the efforts of the Secretary- General, the High Commissioner for Refugees and the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and to enlighten better the international community about the refugee problem in eastern Zaire, the Rwandan Government calls on the United Nations to publish and circulate as a document of the Security Council the report of the International Commission of Inquiry on the trafficking in and distribution of weapons in refugee camps in eastern Zaire. The United Nations International Commission of Inquiry was established under Security Council resolution 1013 (1995) of 7 September 1995. The Commission submitted its report, duly signed by its members, one year later, on 28 October 1996. The embargo on this report, which has hindered its publication, should be lifted immediately in order to facilitate everyone’s efforts.﻿At the outset, I wish to convey the pleasure of the Haitian delegation at faithfully attending this great annual meeting, which always has a particular importance for us. It is yet another opportunity to participate in the discussions on the great questions before us and to seek better solutions in our quest to preserve international peace and security and promote economic and social progress. The consideration of various subjects will certainly entail difficult debates, but Mr. Udovenko’s long experience and solid understanding of international problems are sure guarantees for the successful outcome of our meetings. In congratulating him on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session, I wish him every success in his guidance of our work. I take this opportunity to express our gratitude to Ambassador Razali Ismail for the achievements of the fifty-first session. To our new Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, I convey our satisfaction at the dynamism with which he has infused the Organization since he assumed office. Three weeks ago, the wreck of a passenger boat, which killed more than 100 of my compatriots, threw the country into grief and the entire world into dismay. Messages of sympathy arrived from every corner, as did assistance that helped us to cope with this tragedy. On behalf of the Haitian people and Government, I wish to express our deep gratitude to the international community, which, yet again, has demonstrated great solidarity with my country. For some time, the gist of statements made in this Organization about Haiti was a plea for the restoration of a state of law and an end to the violence and brutal authoritarianism. Today, I am pleased to convey the message that the Haitian people has been greatly relieved by the reestablishment of democratic institutions, assisted by the international community, and the United Nations in particular. I wish to highlight some of the progress that has been made in the political sphere and the efforts exerted to consolidate the gains of the new democratic deal, whose rules of play are being increasingly respected. The transition of power has been recognized and accepted as a cardinal principle of political life. The state, quasi-state and civil institutions are being further strengthened. Socio-professional associations and pressure groups are playing an ever more active role. In the field of human rights, no effort has been spared to end the repressive practices that characterized the former dictatorial regimes. Arbitrary arrests, summary executions and abuse have practically disappeared. The structures of oppression have been dismantled and replaced by institutions sensitive to the need to respect citizens’ rights. This is the case with the National Police force that has replaced the Haitian Armed Forces, which were the main perpetrators of human rights violations in the country. Created barely two years ago, this Police force continues to acquire the experience necessary to carry out its responsibilities for keeping the peace and public safety. It is already gearing up to ensure security and stability throughout the country when the mandate of 17 the United Nations Transition Mission in Haiti ends in late November. The judiciary, for its part, has enjoyed special attention, given the desire for justice expressed by the populace. Parliament is currently considering a bill that will allow the necessary deep-rooted reforms to be undertaken to improve the administration of justice. While the political situation in the country has stabilized, economic and social performance has lagged behind. The gaps created by the crisis of 1991-1994 have yet to be breached. Democratic institutions are up and working, it is true, but they remain fragile because certain needs of the public have yet to be fulfilled. Nonetheless, efforts are being undertaken to revitalize the economy. For example, it has been decided to modernize public companies. Hence, the creation of the Council to Modernize Public Companies. Cooperation with Parliament has already led to the creation of legal instruments aimed at maximizing the potential of these companies to the great profit of users and the consumers of the goods and services they produce. Similarly, the fiscal and financial system is being reformed and trade liberalized. A bill on customs tariffs is currently under consideration by Parliament. In order to invigorate national production, an agrarian reform programme has been launched that aims at bestowing ownership on the peasants of their means of production. It works on three levels: access to land, access to credit and availability of technical training. The Government believes that agrarian reform will facilitate the social integration of citizens who have long been marginalized. This programme falls within an anti-poverty campaign led by the Government in order to assist the poorest sectors of society. As can well be imagined, the democratic process in Haiti is being pursued, but it remains fragile because of the precarious situation and the great poverty of the people. It is quite obvious that, if it is to be viable, it must be maintained, nurtured and supported by sustainable development. The Heads of State and Government who met here during the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations two years ago committed themselves to enabling the Organization to carry out its mandate properly. Consequently, the Secretary-General is now proposing a programme of reforms to strengthen the role of the Organization and to give it a new impetus. We thank the Secretary-General for this initiative, to which we give our full support. This bold and innovative proposal will enable the Organization to become more effective and carry out its mission fully. Some of the measures presented have drawn our particular attention. For example, there is the idea of regrouping the activities of the United Nations around five major themes: peace and security, economic and social development, development cooperation, humanitarian affairs and human rights. However, we must ensure that development issues, which are crucial for the majority of Members, are given the same attention as other themes — if not more. Any reform must give development the priority, resources and political commitment it deserves. The question of Security Council reform, which is still being studied, is another matter on which we must make progress, given the Council’s role in the maintenance of international peace and security. Haiti continues to call for more transparency and participation in the Council’s work, so that the views of States which are not members of the Council are considered in the decision-making process. Any expansion of the Security Council should be carried out in a way that guarantees a fair and equal geographical representation. Everything should be done so that the universality of the inhabitants of our planet is recognized in the United Nations system. However timely they may be, reforms alone will not make the Organization more efficient if it does not have adequate financial resources to carry out its activities. We are convinced that the financial crisis of the United Nations may reduce its capacity to cope with the serious problems it faces. We need a strong and efficient United Nations, capable of finding solutions to current problems and facing the challenges of the next century. It is through the orchestrated, collective action of the United Nations that we will be able to overcome our numerous current problems, which threaten international peace and security and compromise the well-being of our populations. There we refer first to the many armed conflicts which are raging in all regions of the world, some of which seem to resist any attempt at a negotiated settlement. Haiti encourages the use of regional and multilateral mechanisms to solve these conflicts. 18 Likewise, the existence of vast arsenals of weapons of mass destruction is a grave threat to our collective security. The progress achieved in the area of disarmament — especially the opening for signature last year of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and the entry into force of the Chemical Weapons Convention — is encouraging. However, we urge the countries concerned to make further efforts to achieve complete and true disarmament. The Republic of Haiti welcomes the recent adoption of the text of a treaty banning anti-personnel landmines. This is an important step in the battle to eliminate these deadly devices, which have caused so much suffering and which continue to take a toll among civilian populations, especially among women and children. The illicit use of drugs and drug trafficking are also problems which the international community must face with determination. They are, in fact, a threat to the internal security of small States because of the violence and criminality with which they are often associated. Furthermore, drug use affects the most vulnerable stratum of society: young people. International cooperation is absolutely necessary to overcome this scourge. Since 1960 several summits and conferences devoted to poverty and development have been organized. Recommendations have been formulated and measures have been contemplated. Nevertheless, poverty continues to gain ground. According to the 1997 Human Development Report, more than 1.5 billion of the planet’s inhabitants live in a state of extreme poverty, particularly in African countries and less developed countries, which see themselves increasingly marginalized. The eradication of poverty, especially in the least developed countries, should go beyond simple speeches or resolutions. It requires a strong political will, adequate resources, well defined strategies and the implementation of appropriate programmes. It also requires the sincere support of the international community, especially the support of international institutions and the leaders of the industrialized countries, namely, those who possess technology and wealth. The battle against poverty must also be a struggle for human dignity, sustainable development and peace. With a view to strengthening international peace and security, the Republic of Haiti has pursued a policy of good neighbourliness which has enabled it to come closer to countries in the region. It has established with the Dominican Republic a mechanism for consultations through a joint Haitian-Dominican Commission. This is an excellent tool for cooperation and working together to find a solution to the various problems of the island. We would like to see this important forum continue, as it represents a necessary stage towards greater mutual understanding between the Haitian and Dominican peoples. Likewise, Haiti recently rejoined the Caribbean Community (CARICOM). By getting the train of integration under way, my country intends to contribute in a significant manner to the realization of the objectives of the Community, because Haiti is aware that a strong, open-ended, united CARICOM will largely determine the socio-economic performance of the Caribbean region. In this context, we urge the international community to continue to support the reconstruction of Montserrat. Fifty-two years ago at San Francisco we undertook to work for the progress and happiness of our peoples in a world where peace and security would reign. We should therefore work to realize their dreams and meet their expectations and aspirations. ﻿I should like first to thank for his work the outgoing President, Ismail Razali. My Ambassador, the Andorran Vice-President for the fifty- first session of the General Assembly, was a firsthand witness to both the diplomatic skill and dedication of his Malaysian counterpart. On behalf of the Government of Andorra and the Andorran people, I should like to pay tribute to his work and to thank him publicly for the trust he placed in my representative to the United Nations during this year — a year of great change and enormous challenges for the Organization. Allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the fifty-second session of the General Assembly. Andorra recognizes your reputation as a diplomat and your extensive experience. I have no doubt, therefore, that your presidency will be a great success and will bring about the consolidation of the reform of the United Nations, which we are beginning this year. Likewise, I extend my congratulations to the members of the General Committee, who are beginning their term as Vice- Presidents. On 16 July, in this same Hall, I spoke after Secretary-General Annan for some minutes in order to show Andorra’s support for his call for reform. The Principality of Andorra supports unconditionally the proposed reform of the United Nations, since we believe the Organization to be indispensable. As a small State, weak in a world of stronger Powers, it is in line with our national interest for us to desire that law and dialogue prevail over force and military strength. We also have more liberty than many other States to dedicate ourselves to the goals of peace and progress that were set, in a utopian spirit, by our forefathers in San Francisco. For we are small and humble, and have no vast territories across the seas, no uranium mines on the other side of the world, no reserves of oil beneath our soil. Our interests go no farther than our own boundaries. After all, we possess the record for peace in the world — some 700 years. For all these reasons, Andorra and other small countries have the liberty to reflect on the future of mankind and the well-being of peoples as we approach the third millennium — without, I hope, any suggestion of the occult. Indeed, many people have been surprised to discover that we have for centuries democratically elected our Government, and that we last used the death penalty over 50 years ago. In short, Andorrans are capable of resolving their problems without the use of force. And thanks to this legacy, without any misplaced pride or privilege, we wish to promote those reforms that will enable the United Nations to be the best hope for our peoples. Immanuel Kant, in an essay dated 1784, stated: “If it is now asked whether we at present live in an enlightened age, the answer is: No, but we live in an age of enlightenment'.” At the end of the twentieth century, are we now living in an enlightened age? The crises of development and the military conflicts that still afflict our planet make us believe the opposite. To reach our goal of an age of enlightenment, we must count on the United Nations and its ideals, and we must also count on the small countries, which will never fail to defend it. The proposals for the reform of the United Nations presented by the Secretary-General are conscientious, fair, innovative and practical. I will not comment at length on the new administrative structure proposed by Mr. Kofi Annan. To benefit from the assistance of a Deputy- Secretary-General appears to us a natural aspiration. All of those who serve a country at the highest level know how much time must be allotted to issues of protocol and to small meetings. It is necessary for the United Nations that the agenda of the Secretary-General be lightened so that he can concentrate on larger problems. This innovation will probably have the following consequences: the Secretary- General will be considered as the statesman and the Deputy-Secretary-General as the manager. This seems to me to be a good division of labour. What must be avoided, however, is that the Deputy-Secretary-General become a counter-force to the Secretary-General. The Deputy- Secretary-General must always be a faithful representative of the ideas of the Secretary-General in order to avoid administrative tension at the United Nations. The reorganization of the management structure of the United Nations is a prerogative that we must recognize as belonging to the Secretary-General. I therefore lend my support, on behalf of Andorra, to reinforcing the role of the Executive Committees established in January of this year, as well as to the creation of a forerunner to an executive cabinet, the Senior Management Group. I share the Secretary-General’s desire to see an evolution towards greater efficiency and productivity in the management of the United Nations. As many others have done, I take this opportunity to congratulate Under-Secretary-General Joseph Connor for having brought a spirit of good management to our Organization. It seems that during this decade in which budgets have imposed the need for cutbacks, many Governments have learned that it was necessary to reorganize resources, establish the proper relationship between work and goals and find the means to reorganize their bureaucracies and render them more efficient with regard to the work of their administrations. This was often inspired by the strategies used in private enterprise. I thank the Secretary-General for having had the courage to begin this difficult task in the Organization. We in Andorra will try to find inspiration in the principles which will lead the Secretary-General in his reforms in order to make our own administration in Andorra more efficient. Another point which I would like to emphasize concerns the decision of Secretary-General Annan to shift the work of the United Nations towards concrete objectives within specific time-frames. This strategy of working towards objectives will probably save money for the United Nations and serve as a model for the efforts needed to achieve development. That is the strategy which we follow in Andorra in the area of administration, and which every day becomes more accepted by many countries throughout the world. It is well understood that these structural and functional reforms will lead to significant savings in the budget of the United Nations. However, it is of primary importance that Member States pay their debts to the Organization as they agreed to do in acceding to the Charter of the United Nations. Let us be clear: the delay in making payments to the United Nations acts as such a heavy weight on any attempt at reform that it will be nearly impossible to make progress if the conditions of payment are not met. I would like to emphasize that my country, Andorra, pays its assessments to the budget of the Organization dependably and on a per capita basis, as do many other countries. If each citizen of my country contributes almost $2 annually to the regular budget of the Organization, 2 why can the people of other developed countries not do the same, even when the per capita amount that is asked of them is significantly less than that of Andorra? Happily, there are admirable and exemplary citizens who are able to make up for the insufficiencies of their own countries. We are, after all, touching on an important topic: the confidence that we have or do not have in the United Nations. Andorra has full confidence in the United Nations. Even though we believe that the creation of a revolving fund of $1 billion is only a temporary remedy for a financial situation that should never have existed, we are prepared to add an additional 10 per cent of our annual contribution to this emergency fund if the other Member States are equally supportive and on the condition that the debtors — whether they be large or small — pay their debts in the future. The Secretary-General asks us to consider the promotion of sustainable development as a central priority of the reform of the United Nations. On a planet that is capable before the third millennium of producing machines that travel to the moon and to Mars, sophisticated computers to help us, travel networks that link Ulan Bator with Johannesburg or Andorra La Vella with Lima in the space of a few hours — on this planet of limitless advances — the dawn of the year 2000 reveals the existence of hundreds of millions of poor people and a worrisome decline in our environment. How can we go from speeches to acts, from bemoaning the problems of the world to commitment, and undertake those actions which will bring an end to the present degradation? Only the United Nations, as a global Organization, possesses the structure to realize those projects needed to bring about global development in the long term. We therefore applaud the Secretary-General’s initiative to reform those practices leading towards development. Andorra supports him in his goal of reducing duplication and increasing the coordination of resources. In the next decade we must bring to the United Nations the most brilliant minds on the planet and put them to work in a shared spirit of rationalization in order to understand both the causes of underdevelopment and the path to follow in order eradicate it in the twenty-first century. Just as the World Health Organization eradicates diseases that afflict the citizens of the world, so too must the United Nations serve as a catalyst for the eradication of those evils that afflict the world’s peoples. We share the Secretary-General’s particular concern for the natural environment, which is the common denominator of the world. If the Earth dies during the coming centuries, it will take all of us with it, rich and poor, peoples of the North and the South. In his inaugural speech last week the President pointed to the nuclear disaster of Chernobyl as a disaster that continues to haunt not only his own country, but all of us as well. We therefore approve of the Secretary- General’s plan to transform the Trusteeship Council into a body for protecting the integrity of the global environment and of shared areas such as the atmosphere and outer space. We also believe in the mission of peace that the Secretary-General has foreseen for the United Nations. For every conflict there is a “before”, a “middle”, and an “after”. Andorra has learned during its seven centuries of peace that it is better to take action during the “before” stage. The world calls such action preventive diplomacy. It is all too easy to dismiss the existence of small countries as improbable and irrelevant accidents brought about by historical providence. We do not appreciate sufficiently the troubles through which many of those States — Andorra among them — have struggled at certain historic moments and that might have resulted in their disappearance from the face of the Earth. Not having an army and not using force, we have learned by necessity the importance of diplomacy. In the United Nations we must use such diplomacy by choice and by desire. Why should we not consider, among other possibilities, the establishment of a reliable and discreet system of information to measure the political temperature of points of tension throughout the world? Why do we not empower the Security Council to examine in its debates these difficult questions before a conflict arises and temperatures become inflamed beyond the burning point? Indeed, as we consider the reform of the Security Council, why do we not concentrate more on its deeper action, with a view to giving it the means to accomplish preventative diplomacy, as we consider its size and structure? It is truly a matter of regret that the United Nations is not the best instrument for armed intervention during a conflict, unless it is for humanitarian reasons. Perhaps this situation will change if we succeed in establishing a greater force with a greater capacity for military reaction. The United Nations can help the healing after a conflict. If we give it the means, the United Nations may become 3 a humanitarian and preventive force of the highest order. Andorra, which does not have and does not wish to have an army, is in the process of considering the establishment of a humanitarian force that will align itself with these objectives and with the words of international solidarity inscribed in our Constitution. There is no better way to prevent conflicts than to teach and advance human rights and democracy. Political scientists tell us that democracies do not make war with each other. Common sense tells us that people who respect and revere the articles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights will always find a peaceful way to negotiate their differences. For this reason, I have asked my Ambassador to the United Nations to devote, as he has before, a large part of his efforts at Headquarters to the Third Committee of the General Assembly. I have also asked him to study carefully the ways in which the Third Committee might strengthen its procedures in order that the spirit of reform which permeates the United Nations during this time might extend to all its forums of deliberation. Andorra believes in the United Nations and, at the global level, supports the desire of the Secretary-General for reform. I have just explained our reasons for this, but, because people and States believe in the United Nations, we must better understand its functioning and its weaknesses — which are similar to those of any humanitarian organization — and especially its goals and its strengths. Today, I would like to stress the need for a general and ongoing effort to present the United Nations to the world. We live in a world of images, as the events of recent weeks clearly demonstrate. During this time, two great humanitarian figures have died: one who selflessly dedicated her life to the poor, the other who dared to embrace the sick whom nobody dared to touch. These two women, Mother Teresa of Calcutta and Diana, Princess of Wales, both lived under the light of public interest and used it to spread their humanitarian messages. In Great Britain, the Princess of Wales Fund is becoming one of the largest in the world. And yet, it is difficult for us to gain public sympathy and donations for the United Nations, although it is the first and most important instrument for works beneficial to all humanity. Why is this so? Perhaps because it has an image problem. In these closing years of the century, let us link the United Nations to the peoples to which its Charter refers. Let us show these peoples that the diplomats of 1997 are not a club of ladies and gentlemen with little work who wander through the halls of this building. It might be a good idea — in emulation of the United Nations Children’s Fund, which has established a lively and effective presence in Andorra through its National Committee — for us to ask celebrities and leaders of opinion to serve as spokespeople for the United Nations in their countries and across the world. We have the message, the mandate, and indeed the successes, but have been less successful in communicating them and allow the public to forget our actions. Let us consider together the appropriate public relations and communication strategies for the United Nations at this fifty-second session, a session of reform. Two months ago, during my participation in the General Assembly when the Secretary-General announced his reform, I wanted to underline two points of special importance for the Andorran delegation. Today I should like to reaffirm these two aspects. First, I emphasized the importance of the small countries during this process of reform. If the reform leads to a shift away from the founding principles of the United Nations, our Organization will cease to be universal. I concede that, without the bigger countries, reform is not possible, but without the support of small countries reform will only be partial. Secondly, I called for the greater participation of youth in the process of reform and the workings of the United Nations. This is a priority for our delegation: Let us make the future with those who will inherit it. I conclude my speech today with a call of hope and a vote of faith: faith in the United Nations and its capacity for transformation and improvement in its pursuit of peace and development; confidence in its Secretary- General, who has begun his mandate with firmness and decision, as he should; and, finally, an unshakeable belief in the irrepressibility of human progress. Through the United Nations, let us make the new millennium an age of enlightenment.  ﻿Allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to your high office, and to express our confidence in the success of the work of the current session. I also wish to thank sincerely Ambassador Razali Ismail for his enormous contribution to the work of the sessions of the General Assembly over which he presided. The changes which have been taking place in our world in recent years and the formation of a qualitatively new geopolitical system of international relations require the adaptation of the United Nations to new realities, with the creation of a flexible and efficient international mechanism which can take effective measures to address the new challenges of our time. In Uzbekistan we have a positive assessment of Secretary-General Kofi Annan’s plan for reforming the United Nations. Although a number of these proposals require careful study and additional elaboration, we can already highlight concrete aspects which deserve support. I refer primarily to the decision on the enlargement of the permanent membership of the Security Council through the inclusion of Germany and Japan, countries which today are playing a significant role in world economic and political affairs. We also support the enlargement of the non-permanent membership of the Security Council, which, in our view, would provide for a more democratic representation of other States in this body. To promote efficiency in implementing the resolutions of the United Nations, there is a need to reinforce and broaden the authority of the Secretary-General. In our view, we should also support the proposal to establish the post of a Deputy Secretary-General. The idea of merging all the United Nations entities in different countries under one flag in the so-called United Nations Houses seems to us quite rational. The reform of the United Nations administration structure will allow for reallocation of the funds saved to enhance development programmes. The creation of a single agency to combat crime, terrorism, drug-trafficking and money-laundering is also a timely proposal. The proposals on consolidating the economic and social departments, cutting down on United Nations administrative staff, replacing the Department of Humanitarian Affairs and establishing a streamlined Emergency Relief Coordination Office to coordinate activities of all the United Nations agencies in implementing assistance projects, also merit our attention. Maintaining security and stability in Central Asia and providing conditions for the sustainable development of the States of the region are among the crucial guidelines for the foreign policy of Uzbekistan. To achieve these goals, Uzbekistan has put forward concrete initiatives, particularly within the rostrum of the United Nations. I should like to take this opportunity to draw attention again to a number of problems which require an immediate solution, both at the regional level and at the broader international level. I refer first to the continuing conflict in Afghanistan, which has recently become particularly brutal, and to the continuing instability in Tajikistan. Our position of principle regarding the Afghan settlement remains unchanged. Its major aspects include such points as the maintenance of the territorial integrity of Afghanistan; the rejection of force as a means of settling the conflict; the cessation of external interference; the imposition of an arms embargo; the participation in a phased peace process of all the major forces involved in the conflict; the implementation of the peace process under the aegis of the United Nations, and with the participation of the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC); and the creation of a broad-based coalition Government including all the various opposition parties. We share the view of the Secretary-General that if the meaningless civil war in Afghanistan is to be halted, regional and international participants must shoulder additional obligations. Despite all the complications of the situation around Afghanistan, trends have recently been observed which can, and indeed must, be used to begin the peace process. The proposal on imposing an arms embargo deserves special attention. Such an embargo, which has already been proposed by Uzbekistan on many occasions, must be considered the principal condition for halting external interference in Afghanistan’s affairs. We are well aware of the technical difficulties related to the implementation of this initiative in the conditions prevailing in Afghanistan. However, we do not think that they are insurmountable. In our view, the process of imposing an arms embargo should be divided into two stages: first, the adoption by the Security Council of a resolution on the embargo, which would be political in nature; secondly, the drawing up of United Nations control machinery for compliance. We welcome the stepping up of United Nations efforts to resolve the Afghan problem, in particular, the appointment of Mr. Brahimi as the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General. We hope that the United Nations will also support our initiative for the creation of a contact group from among the countries neighbouring Afghanistan, as well as the United States, Russia and other interested States, together with, of course, representatives of inter-Afghan forces. Uzbekistan fully supports the principle of the indivisibility of security — internal, regional and global. Our country was among the first of the newly independent States to accede to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. At the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly, in 1993, Uzbekistan called upon the international community to declare 2 Central Asia a nuclear-weapon-free zone, and we have been consistently moving towards the implementation of this initiative. Concrete confirmation of this policy was the holding of the international conference “Central Asia — Nuclear- Weapon-Free Zone” in Tashkent on 14 to 16 September, under United Nations auspices and with the participation of high-level representatives of more than 60 international organizations and countries. This forum was a major international event in the history of the region. However, we are well aware that the process of establishing a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia is not a one-time political action. It must be carried out within the framework of existing agreements and in accordance with international experience, in particular within the framework of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. In this regard, on the regional level a reliable system of collective efforts by States participating in this initiative should be developed. Those efforts must ensure the non- proliferation regime, the ecological safety of hazardous industries that involve nuclear raw materials and the prevention of leakage of nuclear technologies and materials. On the international level it is necessary to give priority attention to the settlement of regional problems. The phased advancement towards global security is possible only after we create secure and stable regions. In other words, when dealing with global problems, it is essential to follow the principle of moving from regionalism to globalism. It is also necessary to fundamentally reconsider the security guarantees provided to the non-nuclear States, first and foremost to those participating in nuclear-weapon-free zones. We need to organically combine the efforts for promoting non-proliferation and ensuring global nuclear security with the resolution of regional problems. The problem of non-proliferation must be considered in close linkage with significant reductions of other types of weapons of mass destruction. Uzbekistan highly appreciates the efforts of international organizations — first of all the United Nations, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) — for their support of the Central Asian initiative. We would like to request the General Assembly, its President and the Secretary-General to assist in the passage of a special resolution in support of the initiative declaring Central Asia a nuclear-weapon-free zone and in the establishment of a United Nations expert group to study the forms and elements of the regional agreement on this issue. Our cooperation within the framework of the OSCE is making a significant contribution to enhancing regional security in Central Asia. We consider the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly Expanded Bureau Meeting Seminar, held in September 1997 in the capital of Uzbekistan, as the world community’s recognition of Central Asia’s importance in issues related to strengthening peace and stability on the regional and global levels. The creation of the Central Asian collective peacekeeping battalion by Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan was an important step towards safeguarding peace and stability in the region. For the first time on the territory of Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan broad-scale exercises of the Central Asian collective peacekeeping battalion, Centrazbat 97, were held, with the participation of multinational forces. These exercises constituted a serious test, the successful completion of which confirmed this battalion as a fully fledged unit in the United Nations reserve peacekeeping forces. Once again we should like to take advantage of this United Nations forum to call upon the international community to pool its efforts to tackle the serious threat to the security of the Central Asian region that may also have consequences on the global level. I am referring to the ecological situation in the Aral Sea basin. The current session of the General Assembly — the Reform Assembly, as it was called by Secretary-General Kofi Annan — must give a fresh impetus to the joint efforts of the international community in combating organized crime, drug dealing and terrorism. We need to develop transnational programmes to confront these challenges and threats. We may confidently say that if favourable conditions and trends are maintained, in the twenty-first century Central Asia, given its geostrategic significance and its vast natural, energy and human resources, will become a promising and dynamic regional market of a global importance. The interdependence of the situation emerging in Central Asia, the common European security system taking shape and the outlook for developing situations 3 within the vast Asian continent means there is an urgent need for the international community to take measures to ensure durable peace and stability in this region along with its sustainable development.     ﻿I am pleased to extend to you, Sir, on behalf of my delegation, our most sincere felicitations on your election to the presidency of the fifty-second session of the United Nations General Assembly. 8 We also wish to congratulate His Excellency Tan Sri Razali Ismail, our colleague in the Assembly and our partner in the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), for his strong leadership as the President of the fifty-first session. We take great pleasure in congratulating His Excellency Secretary-General Kofi Annan. We commit ourselves to working with him for the improvement of our Organization. Next year the Philippines will commemorate the centenary of its proclamation of independence. Next year also the Philippines is scheduled to conduct the most sacred exercise that democracy requires: electing national leaders through the popular will. As we mark our first century as the first Republic to arise in Asia, and as we prepare to choose those who will lead our country into the twenty-first century, we reflect on what we have achieved as a country and as a member of our community of nations. Today peace reigns in my country. Where there was strife, there is now national reconciliation. Where there was violent rebellion, there is now progress and hope. Last year, with the wisdom and guidance of the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC), in particular the OIC’s Committee of Six, under the enlightened leadership of Indonesia and with the active support of Libya, the Philippine Government and the Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) concluded a historic agreement that brought peace to Mindanao after more than a quarter century of open secessionist rebellion. The leader of the MNLF is now the elected Governor of the Autonomous Region of Muslim Mindanao and Chairman of the Southern Philippines Council for Peace and Development. MNLF fighters are now being integrated into the armed forces of the Philippines and the Philippine National Police. Indeed, there is much for us to celebrate as a nation and as a Republic. And this gives us even greater reason to reflect on the world and to ask ourselves fundamental questions about its present state and its emerging future. One such question that comes to mind is this: Is our world a safer place? The end of the cold war has in a sense made it so. But is the world safe enough when we continue to live under the threat posed by weapons of mass destruction? Fortunately, the conclusion of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty last year and the ongoing review of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons give us some added security. We must not stop here. Let us pursue negotiations on the complete and total elimination of nuclear weapons by a certain time. This call is already supported by the International Court of Justice, which last year recognized that all States have an obligation to pursue such negotiations in good faith. On 27 March 1997 the South-East Asia Nuclear- Weapon-Free Zone Treaty entered into force. On that day, the world of nuclear weapons became much smaller. We now urge the nuclear-weapon States to support the Treaty by becoming parties to its Protocol. At this session we will once again consider the initiative of consolidating existing nuclear-weapon-free zones and of promoting cooperation among them with a view to the total elimination of such weapons. Global safety also demands control of the proliferation of conventional arms, particularly small arms and anti-personnel landmines, whether deployed or in national stockpiles. In Oslo earlier this month the Ottawa process produced, after less than a year, the text of a treaty banning anti-personnel landmines. We will sign this treaty in December. We will also continue to support the noble efforts of the Organization, of individual Governments and of non-governmental organizations to clear minefields, to assist mine victims and to rehabilitate areas plagued by these infernal devices. At the dawn of the post-cold-war era, we must acknowledge that the potential for the most serious conflict has shifted almost entirely from the global to the regional level. In the Asia-Pacific region, the Association of South-East Asian Nations, in response to this new reality, has led in creating the ASEAN Regional Forum, a ministerial-level, multilateral forum for promoting regional-security dialogue and cooperation. Today in the Asia-Pacific region dialogue and cooperation are the pre- eminent modes for securing peace. However, the disputes in the South China Sea remain a source of tension for our region. In 1992, ASEAN issued, at Manila, a Declaration on the South China Sea, which called for the settlement of disputes exclusively by peaceful means and for the exercise of self-restraint by all of the claimants. Other States have endorsed this Declaration. We are determined to advance towards a settlement of these disputes in conformity with international law, including the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, while avoiding all acts inimical to stability and a sense of security in the region. 9 Like many here, we were saddened by the recent events in the political life of Cambodia. We in ASEAN have initiated a dialogue to address the Cambodian issue, even as we look forward to the early admission of Cambodia into the ASEAN family. On the Korean peninsula, we hope that the current talks will lead not only to large dividends of peace but also to greater cooperation towards economic growth and progress for East Asia. In South Africa, following the collapse of apartheid, we are witnessing bold and sincere efforts towards deeper national reconciliation. In other parts of Africa we see active regional cooperation to promote peace and justice in the aftermath of terrible conflicts. In Liberia, in particular, we welcome the holding of free and fair elections with the support of the international community, led by the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). In the Middle East, peace is gravely imperilled by terrorism and political aggression. We call on all parties to renounce all forms of violence and intimidation to preserve the peace process that was begun only a few years ago to the applause of the whole world. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, where much remains to be done, we regret the deterioration of civil order and condemn the violence directed against United Nations personnel. In Latin America, we welcome the honourable termination of the civil war that had raged in Guatemala for 36 years. Is the world a safer place for the world itself? The environment of our planet is under threat. Our response must be to accelerate implementation of Agenda 21 in line with the programme adopted last June. As a priority, we must address the lack of financial resources, technology, know-how and international cooperation that inhibits the promotion of worldwide sustainable development. This December we will meet again to discuss a legally binding instrument under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to control harmful emissions. We must agree now on emission reduction targets, particularly for those who have emitted too much for far too long. How safe, we should also ask, is the world for the individual human being? We can answer positively only when it becomes universally accepted that every human being has rights inherent in his or her person, and that all basic rights — political, civil, social and economic — must be in balanced harmony with one another. Thus, as long as human rights are violated, as long as the right to development is vitiated, as long as the rights of women are not fully respected, as long as people are traded like chattels, as long as migrant workers, especially women migrant workers, are abused and exploited, we cannot say that the world is a safer place for the individual human person. We must protect our women. We must act on the decisions we reached in Beijing, and we must do more to deepen and broaden respect for the rights of women through the use of existing human rights agreements and mechanisms. We must protect our children. We must effectively implement the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and we must append to this Convention a protocol that would organize global measures against child slavery, prostitution and pornography. In addition, we call for universal adherence to the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families. The protection of human rights finds its most effective guarantees in democracy. Any threat to democracy also poses a direct and indirect threat to the rights of the human person. Today, in many countries, including my own, democracy is no longer endangered by the extreme political left or right. Rather, the threats to democracy are more base and more insidious. Among them are terrorism and the illicit traffic in narcotics. With the objective of creating a regional consensus on how best to address the issue of illicit drugs and other transnational crimes, the Philippines will next year host the regional ministerial meeting for Asia and the Pacific on organized transnational crime and corruption. For this meeting, we hope to take inspiration from and add to the consensus achieved in the regional meetings held in Africa and Latin America. Our efforts to make the world a safer place, and to safeguard the rights of the individual, would lose much of their meaning if we were unable to answer the basic question: have the opportunities for growth and economic progress improved? 10 The rising tide of globalization has brought unprecedented opportunities for the developed and developing worlds alike. The acceptance of market-oriented development and of free trade by an increasing number of developing nations has expanded their participation in the growth and commerce of the global economy. Yet the benefits of globalization remain unevenly distributed. Developing countries still suffer from the old problems of external debt and of protectionism in developed-country markets. The recent currency turbulence in East Asia, the region with the best long-term growth prospects in the world, is a sobering reminder that globalization can cause instability even where it has generated the greatest growth. The existence of unbridled international speculation and of other market ills that hinder rather than help development is a powerful rationale for strengthening the United Nations role in global development. Only in the United Nations can we work to share, among rich and poor nations alike, the burden of structural adjustment imposed by globalization. Only within the United Nations system can we mobilize concerted global action to support progress in the poor regions of the globe, particularly in Africa, whose needs call for special attention. The Bretton Woods system and the multilateral development banks also need reform. Global flows of multilateral development financing have to be increased, especially since bilateral official development assistance is declining. Countries that wish to reduce their share in the financing of the United Nations should be willing to do the same in international financial institutions, so that those that want to increase their contributions to these institutions are able to do so without hindrance. Another fundamental question we must ask is: are we ready, as an Organization of States, as nations united, to face the challenges of tomorrow? The short answer is “No”. For this reason, the Philippines strongly believes that we must immediately embark upon the reform of the United Nations. We need to enhance the capacity of the world body to meet the exigencies of modern times. A fundamental objective of reform should be to restore development to the centre of the United Nations agenda. The Philippines, therefore, endorses the recommendations of the Open-ended High Level Working Group on the Strengthening of the United Nations System. If properly implemented, they could render the General Assembly more effective in fulfilling its Charter responsibilities. Our Secretary-General has given us a report on his own reform proposals. These deserve the serious consideration of the General Assembly. We appreciate the emphasis placed by the Secretary-General on development. We also need to accelerate discussions on the reform of the Security Council. In this regard, we welcome the progress that has been made in clarifying and identifying the elements that must be negotiated if we are to move towards any expansion of the membership of the Council. The Philippines favours the enlargement of the membership of the Council in order to enhance its efficiency and effectiveness. Security Council membership should be more representative of the world’s developing regions and more reflective of modern global realities. New permanent members should enjoy the same rights as current permanent members. The use of the veto should be limited to actions under Chapter VII of the Charter. Talking of reform is good. But our talk will lead nowhere if our Organization does not have the resources required to improve and revitalize itself. We survived the balance of terror of the cold war. Let us now work on balancing our cheque-books in the post-cold-war era. There is much irony in this. The end of the cold war should also have meant an end to the astronomical finances spent on deterrence. It might have been reasonable to expect that a fraction of those finances could now be shared to help the United Nations promote world peace, progress and prosperity. Yet this is obviously not the case. The Secretary- General’s proposed revolving credit fund of $1 billion, to be financed though voluntary contributions or other means — if it materializes — may provide temporary relief. However, there is a real danger that this proposal will encourage those in arrears to delay further their payments to the Organization. The Philippines is in favour of reform. But reforming the United Nations should not be seen as an opportunity to hold our Organization to ransom. We are all in favour of reforming and strengthening the United 11 Nations. But setting benchmarks of reform should not be a precondition for a Member State to pay its assessed contributions. In the 100 years since my country declared its independence, war and occupation, dictatorship and partisan politics have at one time or another endangered our democracy. And in those eventful 100 years, we have cultivated certain insights that might prove relevant to us here today. We have learned, as a country, that we must cherish the ideals of democracy in all aspects of our national life, including in our dealings with other nations. After my people emerged victorious in our last major battle with forces opposed to democracy over a decade ago, we resolved to share our experience with the rest of the world. Thus, we organized in Manila the first meeting of the International Conference of New or Restored Democracies (ICNRD) in 1988. From the 13 nations that first met in Manila, ICNRD has grown to 76 countries today. I congratulate Romania for its successful hosting of ICNRD’s third meeting earlier this month. Given the diversity of the membership of our Organization, it is not surprising that we may have some differences even on such fundamental issues as international peace, global development and the protection of the individual. However, I submit that, if our Organization is to function properly and if Member States are to relate to each other in an effective manner, then we must all follow certain basic principles and ideals. These principles and ideals are those that democracy has taught us. Let us work together with all the creative energy at our command and with the ideals of democracy as our guiding light.  ﻿Allow me, Sir, to express to you and to your delegation our sincere congratulations on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session. As you are an experienced United Nations diplomat, we entertain great expectations of your tenure of office as President of the Assembly. We wish also to pay tribute to the outgoing President, His Excellency Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia, whose stewardship of the fifty-first session will forever be remembered for its creativity and dynamism. We wish him well and thank him and his country, Malaysia, for a job well done. The Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, deserves in ample measure our gratitude for the professionalism he has demonstrated thus far in his leadership of the United Nations. His reports on the work of the Organization and on the wide-ranging reform of the United Nations system renew the confidence and trust we reposed in him when we elected him only nine months ago. We live in a rapidly changing world. The past few years have witnessed an unprecedented expansion of world trade and commerce, and the trend continues unabated. National boundaries are being transcended with ease in the interaction of national economies through a process which has been christened globalization. In the international political arena, there is increasing unanimity amongst the community of nations and other global actors that narrow national interests should be superseded by universal interests. These complex changes in the world outlook call for an enhanced role for the United Nations in international affairs lest change become brutal, especially for the developing countries. The United Nations has gained new international stature in recent years, thanks to the extirpation of the politics of paralysis of the cold-war era. “Blue Helmets” are today being deployed in situations formerly considered to be outside the range of the responsibility of the United Nations for the maintenance of international peace and security. The United Nations has also built international consensus through a series of conferences and meetings on areas and issues as diverse as women and development, youth, the environment, human rights, ageing, population, social development and human settlements, education and health, the outcome of which will guide the thinking and actions of the international community into the next millennium. Furthermore, the United Nations has proved its capability to deal effectively with the serious threats posed by nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, a capability which is often frustrated by a lack of political will and commitment on the part of Member States. 8 In short, in the present-day reality, no one country, big or small, rich or poor, weak or powerful, can exist in isolation or act unilaterally without suffering the consequences of its actions. Terrorism, drug trafficking, cross-border crime, the depletion of the ozone layer, acid rain, receding rain forests, advancing deserts, diminishing fresh-water reserves, poverty, disease and many more recognize no national boundaries; only collective action by the States Members of the Organization can arrest and reverse their advance. The United Nations is the mother of genuine multilateralism, and it should occupy centre stage in our thinking about international relations. The heavy responsibilities reposed in the world body by present-day international realities demand that the United Nations system should undergo substantial reform if it is to respond more efficiently and effectively to the needs and concerns of its Member States and their peoples, now and in the future. The United Nations system needs to be streamlined to remove administrative bottlenecks, weed out corruption and other malpractices and eliminate duplication in the activities of its organs, agencies, programmes, funds and offices. It is in that spirit that Botswana welcomes the recent reform initiatives of the Secretary-General as the basis for further discussion and debate on the reform process. My delegation will have occasion to pronounce itself on the various elements of the reform package in due course. At this juncture, I can only observe that Botswana is disposed to a holistic consideration of the package by the General Assembly. The reform proposals constitute a single unit, and its constituent parts should be discussed with that understanding in mind. This means, therefore, that those elements of the package — the greatest number, we would hope — which are acceptable to the majority of delegations, or on which general consensus is attained, should be implemented forthwith. True, many of the proposals are indeed revolutionary, as the Secretary-General himself concedes, and, if approved, they would in a positive sense change permanently the way the Organization operates. The reform package is the broadest and most extensive in the history of the United Nations and, in my view, is an appropriate response to the magnitude of the clamour for reform which has echoed through the halls of this Organization and which for some time now has even threatened its very existence. It would have been the height of absurdity for my delegation to have expected the whole reform package to be agreeable or acceptable to every delegation in this Hall, but I find the arguments and complaints from some quarters that the package does not go far enough preposterous to say the least. Reform, as the Secretary- General rightly reminds us, is not an event but a process. Reform should not and must not be apocalyptic. It cannot and must not become synonymous with the downsizing of the Organization to the extent that it would deprive it of the requisite human and material resources to render services to Member States, especially the developing countries. Such reform would be inimical to the efficacy of the United Nations. Reform should lead to a more efficient, more effective and more relevant United Nations, that is a United Nations with a capacity to foresee and respond adequately and expeditiously to imminent disaster situations around the world and to other needs and concerns of humankind today. The Secretary-General’s reform proposals have signalled the direction to take in the reform process; it is the collaborative response of the Member States which is awaited. I believe we are all very serious about reform of the United Nations; now is the time to approve and implement those reform proposals on which there is general consensus. Our commitment, seriousness and sincerity about United Nations reform would increasingly be called into doubt if by the beginning of the fifty-third session of the Assembly we had not implemented any of the reform proposals contained in the Secretary-General’s reform package. No one country, region or group of countries can arrogate to itself the right to dictate the reform agenda. What should be established is a balanced, equitable and non-discriminatory reform agenda in which the common wishes and interests of every Member State can find expression. This is the guiding principle my delegation will follow in its contribution to the ongoing reform process. The Secretary-General’s reform package is not the only momentous issue in the United Nations reform process. Close to four years have elapsed, and the debate on Security Council reform continues without an end in sight. It is obvious that, unless we can suddenly acquire Solomonic wisdom, we are unlikely to come to a successful conclusion of this debate in another four years 9 or even much longer. Yet there has emerged a body of thought which favours an increase in the membership of the Security Council, in both the permanent and non-permanent member categories, to reflect the configuration of today’s international political realities. Botswana was a member of the Security Council until the end of last year, and we are convinced more than ever before that the composition of the membership of the Security Council, as well as its working methods and procedures, needs reform. It is time for the debate on Security Council reform to be brought to a successful conclusion, so that all geographical regions can be equitably represented in the Council. We should not allow the debate to become sterile or degenerate into a dialogue between the deaf and the dumb. The financial health of the Organization is another issue which remains a source of deep concern and anguish to my delegation. The United Nations cannot be expected to deliver the goods without the necessary financial lifeblood. In other words, the United Nations cannot operate on the basis of a shoestring budget and be expected to carry out the heavy responsibilities imposed on it every day by Member States. It is therefore imperative that each and every Member State should meet its financial obligations to this Organization on time, in full and without any conditionalities, and clear all its arrears as a matter of urgency. The international community has made considerable progress in the struggle for democracy around the world since the end of the cold war. Today, peoples and nations across the spectrum of the African continent live in relative peace and tranquillity and are engaged in the reconstruction of their national economies, thanks to the emergence of a democratic culture. In spite of these positive developments, the reality is that Africa is still bedeviled by deadly conflicts. However, we are happy to acknowledge that fighting has ceased in Liberia. The Liberian people have at long last freely chosen their leaders, and their verdict was respected. The long-suffering and economically plundered Democratic Republic of the Congo today enjoys relative peace and security after a short but devastating crisis that ended with the overthrow of a 32-year dictatorship. The people of the Democratic Republic of Congo need the understanding and sympathy of the international community as they grapple with the reconstruction of their country. The final settlement of the conflict in Angola continues to elude the international community, but, thank God, there has been no resumption of hostilities so far. Progress is painfully slow, due to the failure by UNITA to honour its obligations under the Lusaka Protocol, and especially its refusal to disarm and demobilize its forces. The United Nations should monitor the situation in Angola very closely to ensure that the present slow progress does not assume a state of permanence or lead to a reversal of the gains made so far under the Lusaka process. The international community should continue to pay closer attention to the situation in Somalia and help the Somali parties hold a peace conference through which they can settle, once and for all, their long-running fratricidal conflict. There is a renewed sense of expectation that the efforts deployed to resolve the conflict in Western Sahara will bear fruit. It is our hope and wish that the Secretary- General, through his Personal Envoy, Mr. James Baker, will achieve a breakthrough which will lead to the final settlement of the Western Sahara conflict in the very near future. The situation in Sierra Leone is troubling. The overthrow of a democratically elected Government in Sierra Leone five months ago was a most unfortunate reversal of the political gains that had been achieved in that country. The international community has taken the correct line in making it clear that it will no longer tolerate any military dictatorships. The rejection and isolation of the military junta in Sierra Leone should serve as a warning to military leaders with similar designs that military rule is unacceptable, whatever the justification. The ballot, and not the bullet, should be the only way through which political leadership can change hands. While the situation in the Balkans remains generally tense, there is a light at the end of the tunnel signalling the arrival of a new era of national reconciliation in the constituent States of the former Yugoslavia. The time has come for the various ethnic groups in the former Yugoslavia to realize that none of their countries can exist as an ethnically pure State without causing political tensions and reawakening centuries-old hatreds. Their future and destinies are, fortunately or unfortunately, inextricably intertwined by reason of geography and history. They should accept their fate for what it is. Conflict and war have failed to resolve the ethnic 10 composition of these States in the past, and are unlikely to resolve them in the future. We salute the Secretary-General for his recent initiative which brought together the leaders of the two sides in the Cyprus conflict in New York for talks. We encourage him to continue his good offices until the parties reach a final solution to this decades old conflict. Botswana supports the Middle East peace process. Experience has shown that peace in that complex cauldron of conflict cannot be achieved through war and bloodshed. Only painstaking and rigorous negotiations conducted in an atmosphere of give and take can lead to the desired result: the peace that everyone is yearning for in the Middle East. We hope that the State of Israel will realize the insensitivity of the construction of new settlements on Palestinian lands. This has contributed in no small measure to the current crisis in the Middle East peace process. No effort should be spared to put the Middle East peace process back on track so that the hopes and aspirations of the ordinary peoples of that region to live together in peace as good neighbours may be realized. We welcome the ongoing talks between the two Koreas, in which China and the United States are also participants. It is our ardent hope that the talks will lead to a decrease in political tensions in the Korean peninsula, and that the two Koreas will henceforth establish some common ground which will assist in the eventual reunification of their divided country. I wish to welcome the recent conclusion of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on Their Destruction. I wish the Convention enjoyed the support of all nations. Anti-personnel mines are diabolical and cowardly instruments of warfare which indiscriminately kill and maim their unsuspecting victims. They should have been banned a long time ago, before they claimed more lives and maimed many people. It is our fervent desire that the Convention will soon enjoy the support of all Member States. It is hoped that the experience gained in the campaign for the elaboration and conclusion of this Convention will be extended to all weapons of mass destruction. Several developing countries are still wrestling with daunting economic and social problems. The number of countries whose people still live in abject poverty and lack basic nourishment is on the rise, especially in Africa. Regrettably, multilateral assistance is declining rapidly in relation to the rising poverty in the developing countries. Only a handful of developed countries meet the agreed goal of 0.7 per cent of gross national product to official development assistance. At the same time, private capital flows have been directed to only a few countries. The United Nations funds and programmes are also unable to implement their respective mandates due to lack of resources. It is important that this trend be not only arrested but reversed through strengthened international cooperation for development. For meaningful development to take root in the developing countries, an enabling international environment should be established which can address such issues as macroeconomic stability, more open trade regimes in developed countries, stable financial systems, reasonable debt initiatives, such as those proposed under the World Bank’s Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative, and greater financial flows from developed countries to the developing countries. The international community must also make concerted efforts to support the development programmes of the developing countries in capacity-building, infrastructure and manpower development. Obviously, there will be an absolute need for a turnaround in the political and economic orientation of the developed countries in favour of global prosperity if these objectives are to be realized. It is such enlightened thinking, which promises economic and political rewards to the greatest number of the Member States of the United Nations, which is absent in the development bureaucracies of many developed countries. As always, our faith in the United Nations as a repository of the hopes and aspirations of humankind is genuine, deep-rooted and unassailable. We are a young and developing country in a troubled world — a world caught between the extremes of rampant globalization and resurgent isolationism. Our survival rests with this global Organization and its Charter, to which we pledge our unstinting commitment and loyalty.   ﻿My delegation is pleased to greet you, Sir, as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session. I congratulate you warmly on your election; we have full confidence in your notable qualities as a wise and experienced diplomat. I wish also to pay tribute to your predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail, for the outstanding manner in which he carried out his responsibilities. We all benefitted from his exceptional ability and his dedication. We were delighted at the election of the illustrious African Mr. Kofi Annan to the post of Secretary-General at a critical time in the history of the Organization. His splendid performance in other high United Nations posts and the creativity and dynamism that have marked the beginning of his term justify the legitimate hopes we have all placed in him. The numerous and complex challenges before us at the dawn of the third millennium can be faced only by the combined will and efforts of all Member States. My Government fully recognizes the prominent role of the United Nations in the constant quest for relevant solutions. In today’s world, in which sovereignty is less and less respected, interdependence and globalization are becoming increasingly real and tangible. As a result, we need the creation of new tools capable of raising confidence to a higher level and increasing cooperation between all international actors in a collective effort that alone can provide answers to the global questions confronting us. For several years, our Organization has been experiencing an intensified process of reform aimed at giving it revitalized energy, renewed representativeness and legitimacy, increased effectiveness and greater transparency. The first consensus is emerging, and its benefits will doubtless soon be felt. Recent examples of this include the resolution adopted by the General Assembly following discussions in the Open-ended High-level Working Group on the Strengthening of the United Nations System, as well as the adoption of an Agenda for Development, and the gains achieved so far on the road towards an Agenda for Peace. It is very desirable that equally worthwhile progress take place in parallel with regard to the financial situation of the Organization. In this regard, my country shares the very broad consensus on the need for Member States to respect their obligation under the Charter to pay their contributions on time, in full and without conditions. Reform of the Security Council is one of the most difficult elements among all the reforms being studied. The broad agreement required for a formula has not yet been found. Cape Verde recalls the joint position of the non-aligned countries, which are demanding non- discriminatory treatment for the developing countries, in particular with regard to the prerogatives accorded to the permanent members of the Council. For its part, Africa is now working to refine practical means for rotation within the continent of the seats that it expects to be at its disposal to represent its Member States. The Secretary-General has shown us how convinced he is of the imperative for reform. He took certain decisions and began to implement them. He then asked us for advice and proposals. A fundamental objective of the proposed reforms is to provide unity and consistency to the global activity of the system, and thereby to have an increased impact. Structural transformations and changes in working methods are the favoured instruments for the implementation of this objective. We thank and warmly congratulate the Secretary- General for his initiative, whose focus and broad scope reveal a deep knowledge of the Organization’s situation and an enlightened vision of the directions that should be taken. We will give constructive support to these proposals in the consultations that will soon be intensifying at different levels: in the African Group, the Group of 77 and the General Assembly. The quality of the future to which humankind aspires depends on what we can do today to give human beings their dignity and guarantee that they can enjoy the fundamental rights recognized in the international legal instruments that reflect our collective conscience. We must all commit ourselves to the resolute protection and constant promotion of human rights. The United Nations is dedicated to doing so at several levels and through different instruments. The Commission on Human Rights is one of the important ones, and Cape Verde is gratified that it is able to contribute to its work. To accomplish this task, which is limitless, we must ensure that we construct human rights around the axes that complement and 5 interact with them, as is the case with democracy and development. Fully functioning democracy provides a vital impetus for the establishment of a human and institutional environment conducive to development and the implementation of human rights. However, beyond the formal political dimension, conditions must be created that allow all of our citizens to live in dignity and achieve improved standards of living. The right to development is therefore reaffirmed as a cornerstone for concerted action to ensure that such a right can be enjoyed by everyone throughout the world. It is time to establish a true international understanding for development. Everything possible should be done to ensure that the Agenda for Development, long the subject of negotiation and recently adopted by the General Assembly, is fully implemented in practice. In this context, we regard as promising those concerted efforts recently made by the global institutions, including the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the United Nations Development Programme, the Bretton Woods institutions and the World Trade Organization in areas critical for development, such as financial flows, investment and commerce. We encourage the intensification of this concerted action, which has also been requested by the Economic and Social Council and encouraged by the Secretary-General. It can make a considerable contribution to the establishment of international cooperation, leading to development at both the global and country level. We are presently engaged in a race against the clock. Many developing countries urgently need, finally, to experience the stirrings of an economic lift-off within the international trend. Otherwise, we are afraid that the hard- won reforms of the past and present will not be sustained, and will still less be able to gain the social backing that alone can ensure the eventual transition to the second generation of reforms. The progress that we envisage is not limited solely to the economic arena. Solidarity will also be required. We cannot accept the continued existence of certain barriers that we have erected and that are now impeding us from fully enjoying our fundamental rights. I am thinking of such perversions as racism and exclusion areas based on xenophobia, discrimination which is inflicted on so many individuals, particularly immigrants. Migratory movements have taken place throughout history. We should treat them with understanding and dialogue, which will enable us to find solutions to the inevitable problems, rather than allow them to become exacerbated. In this regard, international instruments can be extremely useful. It is important that the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families finally enter into force. We also hope that the Assembly will follow up the resolution of the Economic and Social Council on convening a world conference against racism, racial and ethnic discrimination, xenophobia and other related contemporary forms of intolerance. On this continuing and unequal march towards development, in which all are involved, some of our countries remain among the least advanced. At a time of increased globalization, to warn against the risk of consolidating and perpetuating the marginalization of these countries is not mere rhetorical overstatement. On the contrary, this danger is very real. The least-developed countries’ share of world exports continues to languish at very low levels, and their rate of growth even dropped in 1996. External trade is vital for reversing the present situation of the least developed countries. The decision adopted in Marrakesh regarding measures to help them, as well as the World Trade Organization Plan of Action adopted last December in Singapore, recognize that the least developed countries urgently need to achieve a lasting increase in their exports. These countries must therefore significantly improve their competitive capability, and their exports of goods and services must have free access to all global markets. In this sense, we are expecting initiatives from the high-level meeting on the least developed countries, to be held next month in Geneva aided by increased institutional synergy between those international bodies with competence and responsibility in areas critical for the development of the least developed countries. The foreign debt of these countries continues to grow. The problem continues to be inadequately handled, as regards both the categories of countries covered by initiatives and the actual level of the initiatives. All least developed countries — not only the most critically affected — need adequate and lasting relief. Moreover, the financing of certain elements indispensable for international integration of these countries, such as infrastructure and education, to cite only a few, requires a significantly increased flow of 6 public development aid. For the least developed countries, this will become ever more necessary in the future. In Cape Verde, a least developed country which has suffered a prolonged drought, there is today national consensus about the country’s future and the major paths to be followed. The reforms which we are undertaking have the support of the nation, which can legitimately aspire to improving its living conditions today, and not in the distant future. The fact that the African continent contains the majority of the world’s least developed countries speaks eloquently of its limitations. For the international community, Africa is a test of its will and its ability to meet the challenge of global development. The world will not be developed so long as Africa is not developed. Solutions, as we know, begin at home. The present and the recent past of our continent confirm that we understand this, and are acting upon it more and more. I take this opportunity to thank those in the international community who are firmly supporting Africa’s development and encourage them to have greater confidence in the future of our continent and in the partnership between Africa and its friends. If the Africans continue to step up the changes under way in the right direction, and if there is concrete progress and cooperation in the international environment, it is likely that the positive signs of the last few years will progressively be consolidated in Africa. However, there are constraints of another nature impeding the general progress sought by our continent: situations of conflict and potential conflict, which continue to proliferate, some of them particularly bloody. Experience — particularly recent experience — has shown that these conflicts are often highly complex. They become deeply rooted and thus thwart any diplomatic or other attempts at solution. However, that is no reason for the United Nations and its Member States to give up their efforts to solve these problems. Working together and in concert with the United Nations, the Africans are becoming more active in their efforts at the regional level to contribute to preventing and managing the conflicts on the continent. Africa needs international support in order to step up its capacities in this area. Such support should not become a means of discrimination, negative or positive, with regard to certain conflicts as compared with others, based on the subjective preferences of donors. The multilateral nature of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity (OAU) implies avoidance of this risk and balanced treatment of conflict situations. The case of Angola has called for the greatest efforts of the United Nations in Africa — lengthy and repeated efforts. Unfortunately, a new deterioration in the situation, with violent consequences, is not impossible at a time when UNITA is persisting in failing to respect the terms of the Lusaka Accords. Therefore, the most recent Security Council resolution on Angola is fully justified, and we hope that it will have the desired effect. Only a few days from the expiration of its time limit, we urge UNITA to take the decisive steps required for lasting peace in Angola. We would like to reaffirm here the support of Cape Verde for the people of East Timor in its quest for genuine self-determination, the preservation of its identity, and recognition of and total respect for its rights. We welcomed the award of the Nobel Peace Prize in 1996 to two eminent individuals from East Timor, Don Ximenes Belo and Ramos-Horta. That award brought even more international attention to the situation of their people. It is time for reason and justice to prevail, and we welcome the appointment of a Special Representative for East Timor by the Secretary-General within the framework of his redoubled efforts to assist in finding an equitable solution to the conflict in the territory. Last June, a special session of the General Assembly to assess the implementation of Agenda 21 achieved meagre results. All sides — Governments, international institutions and social groups — are again challenged to honour the Rio commitments and show more determination and responsibility on the environment. Certainly, with regard to control of the causes of environmental degradation and long-term management of the planet’s non-renewable resources, different parties have different responsibilities, but those responsibilities are shared. Among the numerous constraining factors, population and consumption remain major factors. While demographic growth presents encouraging medium- and long-term indicators, unbalanced rates of consumption persist and even increase, putting unsustainable pressure on resources. My country, a country of the Sahel and an island nation, is particularly sensitive to certain threats to the environment, such as drought and desertification, which 7 were the subject of an international Convention giving particular attention to the situation in Africa. The Permanent International Committee for Drought Control in the Sahel (CILSS), of which Cape Verde is a member, is taking action with a visible impact, which merits continued support by its external partners. Another factor for environmental deterioration — this time a social one — is the scourge of drugs and the human degradation to which it leads. To combat illegal drug trafficking and the laundering of the money it generates, close international cooperation is required, particularly in the exchange of information and logistical and material support. This is a global phenomenon, and the means to combat it must also be formulated globally, with national and regional foundations. The West African subregion, through the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), has begun concerted efforts. The Political Declaration of Praia last July laid down the basis for growing cooperation between the countries involved. The last years of this millennium mark the end of an extraordinary period. The era which began with the fall of the Berlin Wall will go down in history as an era of an explosion of the ideals of liberty and progress such as had not been seen since the great wave of independence in the 1960s. These gains, together with the dizzying advances of science and technology, attest to mankind’s extraordinary ability to come up with imaginative answers. However, mankind has not yet freed itself from feelings of indifference and exclusion, and often even of hate. This is perhaps the major challenge as this century comes to a close. The complete achievement of the noble objectives of the Charter would doubtless represent a decisive step towards such emancipation.   ﻿Permit me first to offer you, Sir, the congratulations of Belize’s delegation on your election, and the assurance of our fullest cooperation as you follow through on the accomplishments of your distinguished predecessor, Mr. Razali Ismail of Malaysia. As the world shifts gears towards a preoccupation with what could be described as millennium fever, our annual stocktaking exercise becomes particularly poignant. And if truth be told, the record of our success — measured against the historical vision of the founders and against current challenges — is not an unsullied one. Nevertheless, in every sphere of human endeavour, in every tangible advance of international comity, the signature of the United Nations can be found. We have contributed to fundamental changes for good in the fabric of the global community. Of course, and as is always the case with less than perfect man-made enterprises, our job is far from done. As the Secretary-General noted in his report on the work of the Organization, we live in an era of realignment. Belize shares his view that this Organization has to continue adjusting to the changes which envelop today’s world, so as to maintain the balance in favour of a more secure and predictable peace, greater economic well-being, social justice and environmental sustainability. Despite sea changes in the international climate, the relevance of the original objectives of the Organization’s Charter remains acute. There is still need to respond rapidly to threats to international peace and security. Economic and social development must be further advanced. Human rights, the rule of law and the ideals of democratic, accountable governance must be concretized in our daily life. And the changes, such as globalization and reshaping of the United Nations environment must strengthen the commitment of nations large and small to international cooperation. The one fundamental lesson that the experience of the last 52 years has taught is that we cannot go it alone. There is large benefit to be derived from multilateralism; and to our mind the United Nations is the one organization with the wherewithal and capacity to take global action on a global agenda. We have been promised that the renewed United Nations system sought by the Secretary-General will 3 become both more effective and more efficient. The extensive and far-reaching set of changes proposed in his Programme for Reform are said to be designed to achieve greater unity of purpose, coherence of effort and flexibility in response. Belize therefore joins with those voices applauding the attempt to strengthen and streamline the United Nations and enhance its institutional capacity. My delegation will eagerly await opportunities to hear comment and will participate in joint analysis of the proposed Programme for Reform. One major hindrance to the Organization’s capacity is its dire financial situation. We have noted proposals within the Secretary-General’s Programme for Reform designed to ensure a viable financial basis for the Organization. It is my delegation’s view, however, that there is still a need for greater clarification if financial solvency is to be assured. We are not entirely convinced that the creation of the proposed Revolving Credit Fund will alleviate the situation. We would rather see implementation of measures for harsher censure in cases of tardiness in meeting obligations. Let us again state our view that this Organization should be granted some measure of autonomy in generating revenue from sources outside national Administrations. There is an ongoing parallel at the national and organizational level aimed at economizing. Streamlining, downsizing, or the process of retrenchment by any name, carries with it a human cost. We must therefore make every effort to ensure that the product of reform is greater than the sum of its parts. Within this context, we wish to offer the caution that in our eagerness to integrate Secretariat entities and units the critical thrust and focus of various departments, divisions and programmes, should not be lost. The gasp of the weak and poor all too frequently can barely be heard above the loudly trumpeted agenda of powerful constituencies. Democracy, human rights and the rule of law have taken on renewed paramountcy, particularly in the post- conflict societies of Latin America. Good governance is the foundation upon which we build structures to ensure sustainable development and durable peace. In both the subregions to which Belize belongs this is a principle that achieves practical as well as intellectual expression. And we find this fact noteworthy: that so soon after internal conflicts convulsed the isthmus, the countries of Central America have been able democratically and constitutionally to reinvigorate their societies. It is also remarkable that so harmoniously has their economic integration movement advanced, that they are now prepared to contemplate the next step of political union. While this is logical, it is also a quantum leap. Now, for juridical and historical reasons, Belize can only be an observer in this process. But we wish to assure our Central American brothers that in our heart of hearts we too are Morazanistas. We too are uplifted and inspired by this great visionary. And we sympathize keenly with the spirit of the legacy that now animates his modern-day progeny. In the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) the coming of the single market is only the most dramatic expression of a new solidarity that Belize enthusiastically embraces. We continue to draw vital sustenance from what is, after all, a West Indian partnership rooted in a shared love for, and practice of, democracy, a democracy that is not resting on its laurels, but that is engaged now in a process of revitalization based on the urgent search for collective economic security and social advance. The proposals for reform encompass suggestions to achieve greater coordination and cooperation among the United Nations agencies and entities which help nations like mine pursue the central priority of sustainable development. We hope, however, that the effectiveness and responsiveness of individual agencies will not be compromised. More will have to be said about seeking innovative means to attract greater capital to finance development. The argument that a development dividend can be realized by a shift of resources from administration to development activities, is not, to our mind, persuasive. Any possible savings in administrative costs could hardly be adequate enough to make significant progress in our collective effort to eradicate poverty. We have yet to hear any general admission of satisfaction with the outcome of the nineteenth special session of the General Assembly to review and appraise the implementation of Agenda 21 and other agreements reached at the 1992 United Nations Conference on Environment and Development. The special session clearly did not meet expectations for the adoption of clear targets, commitments and specific initiatives as we progress along the road from Rio. Long-term commitment and concerted action in the field are still critical if we are to continue to meet the needs of a rapidly increasing global population without depleting the resource base on which our very subsistence depends. 4 We are heartened that the practical agreements reached at the so-called Earth Summit + 5 included those of major concern to small island developing States, such as climate change, tourism and natural disasters. Belize, a country with a low-lying coastal plain, several coral atolls and more than 100 coral islands, experiences challenges similar to those that face small island developing States. At the United Nations we participate within the very active Alliance of Small Island States, and we remain faithful to the implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, adopted at the 1994 Global Conference in Barbados. We look forward to the in-depth assessment of the Barbados Programme to be conducted at the forthcoming two-day special session to be held immediately preceding the fifty-fourth regular session of the General Assembly. Belize will continue to insist that the constituency of low-lying coastal States be accorded the deserved support of the international community so that we too may share in the tangible benefits to be accrued. Countries like mine will also increasingly depend upon the United Nations to steer the way forward in building the new framework within which developed and developing nations interact. Against the backdrop of globalization and market liberalization, a new partnership is called for. The role of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the regional commissions in examining the issues pertinent to globalization and development and the effective integration of developing countries into the international trading system is especially key, for the recent negative rulings by the World Trade Organization on the European Union banana regime, which secured access for African, Caribbean and Pacific countries, fully demonstrate the dangers inherent in unbridled liberalization shorn of consideration for the special needs of small, vulnerable and disadvantaged economies. In the current climate, it is perhaps basest apostasy to question the new catechism of free trade. “Revisionism” is a bad word, and heresy will no doubt be swiftly repaid by excommunication. But has not the zeal of the convert blinded us to the humanism of the original aims of preferential access? After all, this was not some hopelessly capricious or unreasoning altruism. Preferential access regimes represented, rather, a real and sincere effort to enable small developing countries to produce for the international marketplace, to offer their societies a chance at a decent standard of living and to assure them a special stake in the global economy. Although economic thinking has changed, the objective conditions of poor countries have not. Fervent recitation of the new mantra alone can never wipe out the diseconomies of scale for small, primary-producing States. We cannot now compete on equal terms. Yet our calls go unheeded for the comprehensive capital inflows and technical assistance so vitally necessary to achieve the structural adjustment that will enable us to participate equitably in the new trading arrangements. I repeat to the industrialized world what surely has now become our cri de coeur: do not cut off our legs, then tell us to run. Development is still one of the most important aspirations in today’s world. To return to my earlier complaint, the achievement of economic growth and sustainable development has not been balanced throughout the five regions that United Nations comprises. It is an understatement to say that globalization and economic liberalization have had a different kind of impact on some of us. A few nations now enjoy the increased well-being, while others are visited only by deepening marginalization. The recently adopted United Nations Agenda for Development stresses the role of the Organization in development matters. The Agenda is one concrete manner in which we can collectively address the issues and problems relevant to development and, in particular, development’s peculiar relationship with peace, democracy, good governance and human rights. Belize repeats its call for an annual observance by the General Assembly at which development policy would be the focus of debate. Such encounters could maintain the Agenda’s impetus, as well as provide a forum for discussing effective and coordinated follow-through with regard to commitments made at the several global conferences. Preventive diplomacy and peacemaking are still the best means at the Organization’s disposal in its efforts at conflict avoidance. The wide range of activities carried out in the name of preventive diplomacy must ever be mindful that success can be guaranteed only with the consent of all parties. Both the Security Council and the General Assembly, in extending existing operations or authorizing additional ones, must continue to issue clear mandates. In the light of the financial situation, some collective discipline will have to be applied in authorizing mandates when adequate resources are not available. 5 On a related subject, we have learned of efforts under way to develop the Organization’s rapid-deployment capability. This dimension is necessary, but any deployment in this sense must withstand the scrutiny of national consent. Again, we would prefer to see the preventive aspect stressed rather than the enforcement side. Further, a rapid-reaction capability is not needed solely to respond to threats to peace in the traditional sense. Recent measures employed to enhance the Organization’s humanitarian response to both man-made and natural disasters are also demonstrative of the requirement for the institutionalization of a rapid-response capability. In the Secretary-General’s programme for reform, deserved emphasis is placed on strengthening international cooperation to combat the new threats to civil society. The deleterious effects of crime, drugs and terrorism know no borders. The administrative changes to be instituted by the Secretariat to focus action through the United Nations crime prevention and criminal justice programme should give us the upper hand in waging war against the forces of uncivil society. Countries such as mine expend huge amounts of limited resources in addressing these concerns, which, in a small State, can amount to nothing less than threats to national security. Further, we are convinced that the global nature of the problem requires the highest level of international cooperation that can be achieved. This must embody the concept of multilateralism and reject unilateral devices which disrespect the sovereignty of States. Belize’s declaration affirming respect for the personality, sovereignty and independence of States, which was sponsored by 30 members of the Organization of American States (OAS) at the twenty-seventh session of its General Assembly at Lima, Peru, speaks directly to this issue and strongly promotes the spirit of partnership that must underpin an interdependent approach to addressing the common problem of narcotics trafficking and abuse. International cooperation in this regard must mean the avoidance of not just political, but also of economic, unilateralism. For example, the banana industry in my country may well be destroyed by the efforts of the very people who claim to be our partners in the fight against illicit drugs. We have a saying in Belize that the same knife that sticks the sheep sticks the goat. If the prosperity of strategically vulnerable southern Belize is to be sacrificed now on the altar of the new orthodoxy, it will not be long before the substitute blandishments of the drug trade undermine our national anti-narcotics efforts to the point where they too become only burnt offerings at the feet of the deity. The immutable, compassionless law of the market is very much a two-edged sword. It is in this context that the forthcoming special session of the General Assembly on illicit drugs is especially timely. It will afford Member States an opportunity to discuss joint action in preventing money laundering, international cooperation in judicial affairs and law enforcement. But the debate must be a thoroughly holistic one that looks carefully at the interrelatedness of economic well-being and effective anti-narcotics policies. We commend the prudence of this Assembly in its decision that the Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council and Other Matters Related to the Security Council should continue deliberations during the current session. In the absence of any general agreement within the Working Group, Belize would find it difficult to accept a strict deadline in relation to Council expansion. Further, we do not wish to see qualitative distinctions in the decision making ability of existing and possible new permanent members. We note with gratitude that Belize’s comprehensive proposals on the subject are still included among the views being considered. On another issue related to reform, the principles of equitability and universality confer urgency on the claim for consideration of the Republic of China on Taiwan. Twenty-one million people living in a successful, robust and prosperous democracy should be entitled at the very least to a discussion of their circumstances. The blanket “no”, the annual ritual that continues to slam the door shut on even the possibility of debating their aspirations, is irrational and unenlightened. A way must be found to review this situation in a manner consistent with the rights of the parties and the spirit of the Charter. This Organization, it appears, is completing a period of intense self-examination and introspection. We must continue to counter the influences that would ascribe a diminished role to multilateralism. Our flexibility and a visible search for consensus have enabled us to retool. We are demonstrating that we are still equal to the tasks ahead. With reform and renewal moving to the fore this year, it is clear that the crisis of confidence is over. 6 With an able chief executive, the United Nations is now, therefore, strengthening and repositioning itself to surmount the challenges that face us. It is our sincere wish that in the weeks ahead we will reach a new pass in our great undertaking, and that momentous debate will result in keen, relevant and timely decision-making.   ﻿Mr. President, at the outset allow me to take this opportunity to congratulate you on your election to preside over the work of this, the fifty-second session of the General Assembly. Your unanimous election reflects the active role of your country, Ukraine, with which my country, the Sultanate of Oman, enjoys relations of friendship and cooperation. We are fully confident that your diplomatic capabilities and skills will stand you in good stead in managing the work of the Assembly at its present session. My delegation assures you of its fullest cooperation in making this session a success and in achieving its desired objectives. I would also like to pay special tribute to Ambassador Razali Ismail of friendly Malaysia for his successful and constructive efforts in steering the work of the General Assembly at its previous session. By the same token, I wish to stress our continued support for the genuine efforts of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan, in restructuring the United Nations and in revitalizing its role in all areas of endeavours. Owing to the arbitrary policy of the current Israeli Government since it came to power in late May of last year, the peace process in the middle East is going through a difficult phase. The rigidity of the Israeli Government has manifested itself in the non- implementation of what had been agreed upon with the Palestinian National Authority in Oslo and in its non- recognition of the land-for-peace formula, a principle on which the whole of the Madrid Conference was built and a measure which was accepted by all the parties as a foundation for reaching a just and lasting peace. Israel’s failure to comply in good faith with its international commitments and its continuation of building settlements in occupied Arab Jerusalem and other occupied Palestinian territories have resulted in the disruption of the peace process. Therefore, we fully understand the awesome responsibility that falls on the two sponsors of the peace process. We are confident that they, as well as other peace-supporting nations, particularly those of the European Union, are capable of narrowing the existing chasm between the Government of Israel and the Government of the Palestinian National Authority on the basis of justice and equity that will produce substantial progress which will restore a climate of trust and cooperation between the Israeli and Palestinian Governments and that will renew hope once more among the fraternal people of Palestine as well as among the people of Israel for life in peace and harmony. My delegation wishes to recall that the status of Jerusalem was one of those issues that were agreed to be deferred to the final stage of negotiations. However, the measures being taken by the Israeli Government in Jerusalem and its vicinity totally run counter to what was agreed upon in Madrid in 1991. We therefore call upon the international community to express solidarity with the Government of the Palestinian National Authority in resisting these Israeli policies which lead to more tension, violence and bloodshed. Proceeding from its conviction of the importance of the peace process in the Middle East and the need to contribute to giving it impetus for further progress, my country, the Sultanate of Oman, has actively participated in supporting that process. It continues to adhere to the goals of establishing peace in the Middle East in accordance with the relevant resolutions and agreements which have been concluded. Therefore, we demand that those agreements be implemented, since peace is an imperative, and is in the interests of all peoples in the region, ridding them of all forms of repression, terror, poverty, and hunger. The Sultanate of Oman reaffirms its solidarity with the fraternal people of Palestine and supports the peaceful position of the Government of the Palestinian National Authority, which aims at Israeli withdrawal from the Palestinian territories occupied since 1967. We call upon the international community to enhance the peace process by providing its support to the Government of the Palestinian National Authority, both materially and psychologically, thus enabling it to establish the foundations for stability and security in the Palestinian territories and to build the necessary infrastructures for the Palestinian economy, which is an important factor that will safeguard what has been achieved and what we hope will be achieved in the future. We also call upon the people of Israel and all political actors in that country to promote and defend the peace process. We also reject all forms of terror, repression and fear, which have had an adverse impact on the national interests of all the peoples in the region, including Israel itself. We reaffirm the desire of Syria to establish a just and comprehensive peace, a desire it has always reiterated in all international forums. We support the Syrian position calling for the resumption of the negotiations with the current Israeli Government from where they ended with the previous Israeli Government, based on full and complete Israeli withdrawal from the occupied Syrian Golan to the boundaries prior to 4 June 1967, with the concomitant mutual obligations to guarantee the establishment of a just and comprehensive peace between Syria and Israel and in the region at large. We would also like to reaffirm the importance of Israeli withdrawal from the occupied Lebanese territories to internationally recognized borders, in accordance with Security Council resolution 425 (1978). The world has witnessed the increased tension between Israel and Lebanon over the past two years, which has inflicted tremendous financial losses on the Lebanese economy, not to mention the killing of innocent civilians and the spread of terror and destruction, which is a natural result of the continuation of Israel’s occupation of a part of Lebanese territory. The phenomena of violence and terrorism that target the lives of innocents require strengthened international efforts and a firmer will to stand against these heinous acts. In this regard, I reiterate my country’s condemnation of these phenomena and its absolute rejection of all forms of violence and terrorism. We call on the international community to coordinate its efforts to put an end to these acts and to guarantee that those who commit or advocate such crimes be brought to justice. With regard to the situation between the United Nations and Iraq, we believe that the implementation of resolution 986 (1995) and its further extension are important steps that deserve the acknowledgement and the commendation of the international community, for it will alleviate some of the sufferings endured by the brotherly people of Iraq. My country has welcomed this and expresses its satisfaction that the cooperation between Iraq and the Special Commission is being built on a foundation of trust that will certainly enable its new Chairman, Ambassador Richard Butler, to submit an appropriate final report on the future of the economic sanctions imposed on Iraq. Despite these encouraging indicators between the United Nations and Iraq, some fundamental issues remain that have yet to register any progress, particularly the question of Kuwaiti prisoners and detainees of other nationalities, and the return of Kuwaiti properties. This question is of particular importance and we would reaffirm here the urgent need for the United Nations to make greater efforts and to establish further contacts with 2 Iraq with the aim of putting this issue to rest, since it is largely related to humanitarian and social matters. My country attaches primary importance to the peace and security of the Gulf region, cooperation and coexistence among its nations and peoples in accordance with the principles of international law, peaceful neighbourly relations, mutual respect and non-interference in each other’s internal affairs. On this understanding, we have been striving, in the context of the combined efforts of the Gulf Cooperation Council, to solve all disputes and sources of tension, whatever they may be, between the countries of the region through dialogue and peaceful means. Thus, the question of Lesser Tunb, Greater Tunb and Abu Musa islands constitutes a dispute that might jeopardize the peace and stability which we are seeking. In this regard, we support all efforts aimed at solving this question through direct peaceful dialogue and legal means between the concerned parties, the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran, in a manner that will safeguard neighbourly relations, stability, security and peace in the region. With regard to the situation in Somalia, my country applauds the efforts recently made by Egypt that led to the signing of an agreement between the leaders of the Somali factions. We call on those factions to pursue the peace dialogue among them in order to attain Somali national unity. We call upon the United Nations to render concrete support to Egypt’s efforts to help the Somali factions to implement their national programme. My country has continuously supported international efforts aimed at strengthening international peace and security. In this regard, my country’s announcement at the previous session of the General Assembly of its accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) emphasizes our policy, which was followed by other steps represented by its deposit of the instrument of ratification in early 1997 and its initiation of negotiations with the International Atomic Energy Agency to finalize a safeguards agreement, in accordance with our obligations as set down in the Treaty. The Sultanate of Oman, while taking this historic step, certainly hopes to bestow more strength and credibility on the Treaty, which it considers to be the most important multilateral disarmament treaty, by encouraging all countries that have not yet joined the NPT to do so. In this regard, we call on Israel in particular to expedite its accession to the Treaty and to place all its nuclear facilities under international supervision, which we believe will create an atmosphere of trust and confidence and limit the level of armament in the Middle East — a move that would bring about just and permanent peace to the region. The Chemical Weapon Convention is no doubt an important multilateral disarmament treaty prohibiting a whole category of weapons of mass destruction amenable to verification measures. All of us have an obligation to uphold these measures for the benefit and welfare of humanity at large. In order to avoid a similar fate for the NPT, we believe that all nations should accede to it. Preserving the universality and comprehensive nature of this Treaty should constitute one of the highest goals on the international community’s list of priorities. At a time when the international community is preparing to enter the twenty-first century, the African continent continues to suffer the blight of endless, successive wars. These wars have taken the lives of hundreds of thousands of innocent civilians and created more than 6 million refugees and about 12 million displaced persons in the continent. We add our voice to those who have called on the African nations within areas of conflict to exert every possible effort, including regular negotiations, to provide an environment conducive to national reconciliation among the warring factions and to enable the refugees to return securely to their lands through safe passages. My country supports the United Nations role in coordinating worldwide efforts — through international donor agencies, the regional efforts represented by the work of the Organization of African Unity, and countries that border those areas of conflict — aimed at achieving progress and development for the individual in Africa, who has and continues to suffer from deprivation, despair, poverty, natural disasters and other man-made catastrophes. The environment is a gift from God, the Almighty, to man. Its preservation is a collective responsibility which is not limited by political boundaries. This fact has been proven repeatedly. Therefore, wherever man lives, he should do his share to protect the environment and to treat it with wisdom and logic, and be aware of the diverse causes of pollution. We are called upon to commit ourselves constantly to the implementation of Agenda 21 and its principles declared at the Earth Summit. Such actions and principles constitute the foundation upon which a global partnership and a collective responsibility have been erected. Their goal is to end poverty and 3 hunger and to prevent a decline in health standards and the degradation of environmental systems. All of these are necessary preconditions to obtaining sustainable development, which is the only option open to humanity that guarantees the future of coming generations and offers prosperity and progress to the present ones. The Sultanate of Oman has prepared a national strategy to protect the environment that aims at achieving balanced and sustainable development, a strategy that would treat economic, social and environmental considerations on an equal footing. My country has also prepared a national plan to combat desertification in the Sultanate in due implementation of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification. Furthermore, the Sultanate has established an integrated network of natural reserves throughout the country that will accord with the objectives of the Convention on Biological Diversity. The Sultanate of Oman has supported various environmental bodies, introducing new legislation and updating old environmental laws in order to meet the requirements of environmental protection from the dangers of pollution resulting from diverse development activities with a view to guaranteeing the full implementation of regional and international environmental agreements. It has also declared every 8 January as Omani Day of the Environment. On the regional level, the Sultanate of Oman, in its efforts to implement the recommendations that stem from the Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping Wastes and Other Matter from ships at sea, has declared its intention to build a bunkering port for ships on its shores in preparation for their adoption in other countries of the Gulf region. On the international level, the Sultan Qaboos Prize for Environmental Preservation, set up by UNESCO, is a true testimony to the effort by the Sultanate of Oman and its leader to translate the concept of collective responsibility for environmental protection into a practical reality. Protecting the environment and striking a balance between the needs of development and the environment form a cornerstone of the declared policy of the Sultanate of Oman. My country looks forward to complementing its effort with that of the international community in the areas of training, transfer of technology and exchange of information and to getting acquainted with the latest modern techniques and scientific discoveries in the environmental field. In this regard, we call on the international community, in particular the developed countries, to provide the necessary financial and technical resources to rescue our planet and its natural resources. Since the individual is the centre of development and the moving force behind the renaissance of modern Oman and is the real support of all development operations, the Sultanate of Oman, as of the inception of its modern development, has focused its attention on improving the welfare of Omani citizens. In the social domain, the national plans for the development of the family and of women have been accorded the highest priority. Our social development plans accord special attention to issues relating to the family and to projects that aim at providing the best care for women and children. The efforts of the Government in this regard have culminated in the establishment of women’s rehabilitation centres in different parts of the Sultanate. These centres aim to develop women’s potential and to promote their cultural and social standing. Moreover, the Government has played its part by introducing new laws and legislation that are geared to achieve social security for the family in cases of old age, disability and handicap, in order to allow those with disabilities to be reintegrated in society and to rehabilitate them for participation in society’s development. The Government has also established development plans for women and children with a view to their preparation for the future through setting up women’s organizations based on volunteerism and through launching children’s social services in remote and rural areas of the country. In this regard, we are happy to note that international agencies such as the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), have praised the efforts of the Government. In its report entitled The Progress of Nations 1997, UNICEF illustrated the accomplishments achieved by the Sultanate of Oman in child protection and the country’s commitment to ensuring the rights of the child through its accession in 1996 to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The Sultanate of Oman is the number-one country in the world in terms of reducing infant under-five mortality by 74 per cent between 1980 and 1995. The report notes: “The proportion of children who reach their fifth birthday is one of the most fundamental indicators of a country’s concern for its people. Child survival statistics are a poignant indicator of the priority given to the services that help a child to flourish: adequate supplies of nutritious food, the availability of high-quality health care and easy access to safe water and sanitation facilities, as well 4 as the family’s overall economic condition and the health and status of women in the community.” [See The Progress of Nations 1997, page 28] The UNICEF report for the year 1994 also notes that, based on the 1992 indicators, the Sultanate of Oman ranked as the number-two nation in the Middle East and North Africa region in terms of girls’ enrolment in primary education. Recently, the achievement of modern development in the Sultanate of Oman has culminated in the significant achievement of the introduction of the Basic Law of the State, which is considered a milestone in the Sultanate’s modern history. Other serious steps are also under way to strengthen the participation of women in the legislature, the Majlis Al-Shura. On the economic level, achieving balance and stability in macroeconomics and encouraging private enterprise in a competitive and free environment constitute the future vision that will guide the Omani economy for the next 25 years. We believe that the reaffirmation of the previously mentioned Basic Law of the State and the adherence to these principles will be the guiding factor in the country’s policy of openness that should engender confidence in our economy and create the necessary conditions for investments. In the area of diversifying the sources of its national revenue, the Sultanate of Oman is in the process of implementing several other major projects that are expected to capitalize on its natural gas discoveries and reserves. In this respect, we would like to note in particular that the liquefied natural gas project should begin operation with the first shipment in the year 2000. Work has also begun on building the container port in Raysút, in the south of the Sultanate, with a view to its becoming a regional and international port. It is our hope that this port will serve as a regional focal point for exporters and transitional trade. In addition to these efforts, the Omani Government is in the process of implementing various privatization projects through careful study. It is also updating its tax and investment laws in accordance with the new spirit of global partnership prevailing throughout the world. In accord with this global partnership, the Sultanate of Oman has adopted important measures to implement the necessary requirements for its membership in the World Trade Organization (WTO). It is our fervent hope that these measures will be finalized in order to allow Oman to assume its rightful place in the organization in the near future. Here I would like to recall that, in compliance with the guidelines of the WTO in the area of intellectual property, Oman has completed the formal procedures for becoming a member of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). In this vein, the Convention signed at Stockholm on 14 July 1967 has been in force in Oman as of 19 February 1997. On the regional plane, the economic cooperation among the States members of the GCC is being strengthened every day. Moreover, there is agreement among them with regard to international treaties and organizations. The member States of the GCC are seriously striving to join the WTO. Coordination between the GCC and other regional and international economic groupings is something that ought to be noted here as well. The Sultanate of Oman adheres to a free-market economy and vigorously promotes foreign investments. And in this regard, it has introduced various incentives, created the appropriate environment and enacted flexible legislation in order to eliminate all the barriers and impediments that might stand in the way of attracting foreign investors and protecting their rights. Based on this conviction, given our national economic strategies and in response to international developments that attest to the importance of economic groupings, the Sultanate of Oman participated in the first Ministerial Meeting for the formal launching of the Indian Ocean Rim Association for Regional Cooperation (IOR- ARC) which was held in Mauritius in March 1997. As a result of many years’ work, in which my country had the honour to initiate and take part in formative meetings, the Indian Ocean Rim Economic Association was officially established. This has paved the way for its members to work together towards strengthening economic and trade cooperation between them in one of the important regions of the world in accordance with the goals and objectives enshrined in the Association’s charter. These goals include increasing economic linkages, cooperation and interdependence between the member States and their peoples. Besides working with the private and academic sector, members of the Indian Ocean Rim Economic Association are working towards establishing stronger ties in the areas of technical and scientific cooperation and also promoting the exchange of investment opportunities and mutual economic benefits. 5 We welcome the national-level initiatives to set up programmes to pay arrears to the United Nations. The adoption of such measures will revitalize the work of the Organization in all areas, particularly in those areas relating to organization, administration and finance. This should strengthen the performance of the Organization in the years 1998 and 1999 in accordance with the practical framework established by the General Assembly. At the same time, we urge all States to refrain from setting conditions for the United Nations during the payment of their late dues. Such conditions ignore the will and interests of the international community, and are characterized as focusing entirely on short-term national interests of the States involved. Such conditions could lead to the further escalation of old and existing tensions in the world, until appropriate solutions for their radical elimination are found. Here we advocate caution and deliberateness in connection with the elimination of some of the United Nations missions — such as the United Nations Truce Supervision Organization, presently stationed in Jerusalem, and the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon. These cutbacks might have negative political and legal implications. Through the United Nations the international community has proved its ability to renew its determination and muster the necessary political will for serious collective work and cooperation in fostering international peace and security. In this regard the Organization has shouldered huge responsibilities and faced complex challenges in its efforts to restructure its system for the next millennium through the adoption of less costly and more effective mechanisms for attaining the desired goals. In our view, after all the debates and deliberations in the General Assembly, the time has now come to have a final vision of how to expand the Security Council and to restructure it, that Council being the most important political body charged with the maintenance of international peace and security. While bearing in mind the global economic and political realities, which cannot be ignored, the reforms should be of a holistic nature, based on equality among nations and equitable geographic distribution. There is also the need to establish democracy in the work and decision-making of the Security Council. The Council’s work also encompasses the development of an actual and precise picture of the new international order, which should be characterized by justice, security and peace. ﻿First, I join other speakers in congratulating my Ukrainian colleague upon his election to his high office. Last week in Oslo, almost 100 countries agreed to a Convention text for a total ban on anti-personnel landmines. Who would have imagined, only a year ago, such a remarkable achievement in such a short time? Thanks to the tireless efforts and model cooperation of Governments, non- governmental organizations and civil society, we have reached this milestone event. I would like to extend a special tribute to the International Campaign to Ban Landmines and the International Committee of the Red Cross. They have been a driving force in our efforts to get rid of the scourge that landmines represent in the lives of men, women and children in conflict areas around the world. At the beginning of December we will meet in Ottawa for the signing of the Convention. I appeal to all countries engaged in this process to ratify the Convention. To those who have not yet joined us, I say: “Please do so as soon as possible”. Landmines cannot be allowed to terrorize, maim or kill more innocent civilians. The United Nations and its Members have an important role to play and responsibility for bringing success to the Ottawa process. I appreciate the support of the Secretary-General and welcome the fact that he will be the depositary of the treaty. We all have a strong moral obligation to increase our efforts to reduce the suffering and prevent new casualties caused by landmines. Norway intends to provide $100 million over a five-year period for mine clearance and assistance to victims. The spread of landmines, small arms and weapons of mass destruction is unfortunately only one of the many interlinked global challenges illustrating that the world now, more than ever, needs the United Nations as a well- functioning global Organization. At the threshold of the third millennium, it is unacceptable that poverty and pollution still dominate the daily lives of billions of people all over the world; it is unacceptable that hostilities and hatred still create deadly new conflicts and humanitarian disasters, between and within States on all continents; and it is unacceptable that basic human and individual rights are still widely violated through injustice by Governments and the negligence of the international community. Only the United Nations can tackle these universal and interdependent problems in a comprehensive and integrated manner. But the world has surely undergone radical changes since 1945, and so has the nature of the tasks confronting us. Hence, the United Nations also needs to change in order to do better what the Member States want it to do. I was therefore very pleased by the letter that Mr. Kofi Annan sent to all of our Governments last month. In clear and concise terms, the Secretary- General set out the elements of what is without doubt the most comprehensive reform package in the history of the United Nations. Let me state clearly that Norway warmly welcomes and fully supports the Secretary-General’s programme for reform and renewal of the United Nations. Together with the other Nordic countries, we have given our strong political backing to his reform proposals. We will work actively with other Member States to ensure that the General Assembly endorses the reform package this autumn. We want the reform plans to be implemented as soon as possible. Norway urgently wants a stronger and more efficient United Nations. Without such reform, we will have an Organization less able to promote development, peace and progress. Norway is, as many know, one of the main contributors to the United Nations system. We are one of the group of countries that fulfil the aim of allocating more than 0.7 per cent of our gross national product to development. One out of every 100 Norwegians has participated in peacekeeping operations around the world. In terms of money, resources and personnel, our voluntary assistance to humanitarian relief activities, is, I am proud to say, second to none. But we want to make sure that our contribution is put to good use. We want to see it utilized by the United Nations to improve the lives of people where the needs are the greatest. That is why we support the Secretary-General’s reform proposals. First of all, the reforms will ensure that more resources are allocated more efficiently for development. 11 The Secretary-General’s excellent proposal to use administrative savings for a “development dividend” is but one element in the process. We encourage him to continue further on the course that he has taken. United Nations activities targeting sustainable development, poverty, population, education, the promotion of the role of women in development and the implementation of the results of the Beijing Conference must be strengthened and integrated at the headquarters and field levels. Health should be among the main priorities. Increased international efforts are needed to assist developing countries in improving their national health policies and to combat emerging and re-emerging diseases, such as malaria, tuberculosis and AIDS. Member States must follow up by fulfilling their obligations to increase their transfers of aid to the developing countries and peoples that need it the most. Hopefully, this will also have the effect of creating the confidence needed to bring us forward in the Rio process, towards renewed environmental commitments which can pave the way for a successful meeting in Kyoto later this year. Secondly, the reforms will strengthen the ability of the United Nations to manage conflicts. Too often, the United Nations has shown a lack of capacity to act rapidly in the face of emerging crises. Therefore, we believe it is high time to establish a rapid-deployment mission headquarters for peacekeeping and other operations. Norway has offered to provide funding for personnel for this headquarters. Furthermore, we encourage other Member States to contribute to the Trust Fund for Preventive Action, which was established this year. We are pleased to note that the Fund has already facilitated the work of the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General in Central Africa. We want to cooperate closely on conflict resolution with our friends and partners in Africa, including through our training programmes for peacekeeping tasks in that region. Thirdly, the reforms will extend the capacity of the United Nations in the human rights field. Norway welcomes the proposals to strengthen the human rights secretariat and the excellent choice of Mary Robinson as High Commissioner for Human Rights. We pledge to work closely with her to ensure that the international community increases its focus on human rights violations. Human rights concerns must become an integral part of all core areas of the Organization’s work, including at Headquarters in New York. We must follow up reform of the Security Council. Our position is, I believe, well known: the Council must be made more representative and should better reflect changes in political and economic realities. We want new permanent seats for Germany and Japan and for the developing countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America. At the same time, a limited number of new non- permanent seats should be added. We need financial reform and changes to the scale of assessments. Some countries have experienced high and sustained economic growth, but still resist reforms which would better reflect their increased capacity to pay. Other countries feel that they are paying too much. We agree that the time has come to show flexibility in the discussions on lowering the ceiling on the scale of assessments to the United Nations budgets, as part of an overall solution. It cannot be justified that some countries unilaterally pay less than their legally binding share, or nothing at all. Non-payment is unacceptable. How can those of us who always make a point of paying in full and on time, without conditions, expect our citizens and taxpayers to continue financing free riders? We need better integration and coordination within the United Nations system and between the United Nations, regional organizations, Governments, civil society and non-governmental actors. For Norway, this is not least important in the area of humanitarian assistance. We welcome the proposal to enhance the capacity of the Emergency Relief Coordinator to deal more effectively with complex emergencies. In Bosnia we are engaged in peace-building under very difficult conditions. Men and women are serving a wide range of different organizations: the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, the United Nations civilian police, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and humanitarian non-governmental organizations. Without the excellent coordination and cooperation that has evolved between the High Representative, the United Nations Special Representative, the Stabilization Force Commander, the OSCE Head of Mission and others, the peace-implementation process would have been in dire straits indeed. Nationalist leaders in Bosnia are still inciting hatred. Refugees are being denied their right to return to their homes. Our personnel are being threatened. War criminals are still at large. But despite the failure of local leaders to fulfil their obligations, the recently held elections show that the international community has given this country hope for the future. We will stay the course and remain engaged in Bosnia until peace is consolidated. We will insist that wanted war criminals be brought to justice. The 12 convening of a United Nations conference to establish a permanent international criminal court in 1998 must be given priority. Norway remains committed to the Middle East peace process. While we will continue to work actively with other donor countries to ensure the availability of funding, we are extremely concerned by the current deadlock. The parties must realize that there is no alternative to the peace process and to the fulfilment of the spirit and the letter of the Oslo accords. Further credible efforts to combat terrorism must be undertaken. The current settlements policy is not conducive to the peace process. We must redouble our efforts to bring the parties back into dialogue about the remaining issues. We must not forget the success stories of United Nations conflict resolution. Just since last year, for example, the decades-long civil war in Guatemala has ended peacefully. We have had the pleasure of working with the United Nations and others, like the Group of Friends for Guatemala, in seeing through the ceasefire agreement signed in Oslo and the other peace accords. I would like to take this opportunity to commend the Government of Guatemala and the Unidad Revolucionaria Nacional Guatemalteca for their courage and determination to see the peace process succeed. Finally, our experience in Guatemala and other conflict areas corroborates the importance that the Secretary-General attaches to the close interaction between the civil society, Governments and the United Nations. We must make use of the dedication, resources and commitment to peace and progress that exist among citizens, in non-governmental organizations and in the private sector. Through the active involvement and support of civil society, we can build a stronger and more effective world Organization for the next century.  ﻿First of all, let me say how very pleased I am to congratulate you sincerely, Sir, on behalf of the delegation of the Kingdom of Morocco, on your election to preside over the fifty-second session of the General Assembly — an election that is a token of consideration for your political experience and great competence. It is also a pleasure for me to salute you, Sir, as the representative of the friendly country of Ukraine, which has solid ties of friendship and full cooperation with the Kingdom of Morocco. I am convinced that your vast experience and excellent command of 11 international affairs will guarantee the success of our debates and will lead our session to results that open up new prospects of peace, cooperation and prosperity. I should like to take this opportunity to express to the outgoing President, Mr. Razali Ismail, the representative of the friendly country of Malaysia, our respect and gratitude for his efforts and for having successfully guided the work of our previous session. I should also like to extend to the new Secretary- General of the United Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan, my most sincere congratulations on the confidence placed in him by virtue of his election as Secretary-General, which crowns many years of competent management and tireless effort within the context of the United Nations. His election also reaffirms the deep consideration in which the friendly country of Ghana is held. Since our last session, the world has been experiencing a period of various political and economic interaction which, unfortunately, has not lived up to mankind's aspirations for bringing the international community closer to tranquillity, security and peace. International relations indeed continue to be fraught with various tensions and disturbances. Thus, on the international scene, new conflicts have emerged which threaten the security, stability and sovereignty of peoples. Given these challenges, we believe that those problems which emerge in the international arena today can be resolved only through international efforts under the auspices of the United Nations. In this context, we applaud the efforts made by the Secretary-General to reform and restructure the United Nations and improve its working methods in accordance with the requirements of this age. In the same way, we reaffirm our support for all of these efforts aimed at strengthening our Organization and enhancing its effectiveness to allow it to carry out its mission in full, in accordance with the provisions of the Charter. We firmly believe that the aims of any reform designed to restructure the Organization and rationalize its expenditures can be attained only if due account is taken of the interests of the developing countries and, above all, if reform provides for a solution to their economic and social problems as well as the provision of material and technical means required for these ends. With regard to enlargement of the Security Council, we would like to stress the need for consensus and the achievement of balanced and equitable representation of all continents, in particular since the conditions in which United Nations bodies, including the Security Council, were established have now disappeared. The world is now witnessing profound and swift changes which force us to reconsider the composition and role of the Security Council to make it a genuinely effective instrument which is not subject to objectives and interests which contravene the Charter. The international community welcomed with optimism the peace process which began in the Middle East on the basis of agreements reached between the parties concerned. However, the interruption of this peace process, as a result of the violation by the Government of Israel of all previous commitments and the contravention of all obligations and rules of international conduct now threaten to wipe out all previous efforts to strengthen the foundations for peace in the region. The violation by the Government of Israel of its commitments was illustrated by its decision to resume its settlement policy and to alter the cultural characteristics and demographic composition of East Jerusalem. This decision is in violation of previous agreements with the Palestinian side. This unilateral and illegitimate decision is also a blatant violation of the Fourth Geneva Convention, which forbids occupation authorities from effecting any changes in the territories under their control. Israel, which is still persisting in its refusal to implement Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978), has once again brought about an escalation of tension in southern Lebanon, and is continuing to ignore the Syrian proposals to resume negotiations from the point at which they were broken off. Our vision emanates from our conviction that peace in the region cannot endure or achieve its goals except through equitable treatment which guarantees the mutual interests of all parties and in the context of a region free from weapons of mass destruction. Convinced as we are of the need to pursue peace efforts, and conduct this process in accordance with the legal framework laid down for it, we would like to stress the need to honour all the obligations stipulated 12 in the agreements signed, and the adherence to credibility in dealings based on such agreements, which will lead to peace and security for all the peoples of the region, and allow the Palestinian people to exercise their right to self- determination and establish their independent State with Al-Quds as its capital. In this framework, the international community should take the necessary measures to make Israel respect and implement Security Council resolutions. The stability of the Middle East requires the establishment and consolidation of security in the Gulf region. We deplore the sufferings of the Iraqi people, who are living in extremely harsh conditions as a result of the economic embargo which has been imposed on them for many years now, and we reaffirm that the implementation of Security Council resolution 986 (1995) on “oil for food” is a first step towards lifting the embargo imposed on the Iraqi people. We look forward to the day in the near future which will mark the end of that suffering and the return of Iraq to the exercise of its rights as a member of the Arab family of nations and an active and constructive member of the international community. Morocco, as a part of the Arab Maghreb region, takes a special interest in the existing dispute between the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and certain western countries because of its negative impact on the regional situation and on the brotherly Libyan people. Thus, we call for a favourable response to the initiatives undertaken by the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and the flexibility it has demonstrated, and the efforts exerted by the Arab Maghreb Union, the League of Arab States, the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the Non- Aligned Movement with a view to lifting the sanctions imposed on Libya. Morocco, which has closely followed the development of the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and has contributed, along with other members of the international community, to the initiatives proposed by the chair of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, and through participation of Moroccan military units in the Implementation Force and Stabilization Force, expresses its satisfaction at the progress made in the implementation of the military and civilian aspects of the Dayton Accord, and stresses the need to pursue efforts to ensure its full implementation with a view to establishing the legitimate rights of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to contribute to the reconstruction of the country through provision of the requisite means as agreed by the conferences of donor countries. As an African nation, and given its age-old and varied relations with other African countries, and furthermore conscious of its obligations to Africa, Morocco expresses deep concern about the deterioration of the political, economic and social conditions in many parts of that continent. Morocco follows with deep concern the persistence of instability in some parts of Africa, and reaffirms its determination to support and enhance the efforts of the international community to find appropriate and lasting solutions to crises. On the other hand, the woeful economic situation in Africa is a source of concern for the international community. This situation is particularly reflected in the weak participation of the continent in world trade and in an increase in its debt burden. It is also reflected in a chronically inadequate infrastructure, a serious deterioration in social and health conditions, and, despite the stringent structural reforms introduced by African countries, by the paucity of foreign investment. In this context, we welcome the initiative taken by Portugal to convene a European-African summit meeting to consider these conditions in the continent and to seek appropriate solutions. We consider that this initiative reflects the awareness of the European Union in respect of its responsibilities with regard to Africa. Morocco therefore proposes the convening of a ministerial meeting to prepare for that summit. Similarly, the Security Council's initiative calling for the convening of a special meeting at the foreign ministerial level to consider the situation in Africa attests to the degree of concern of the international community with regard to the gravity of that situation. In its relations with all other African countries, Morocco has always adopted policies aimed at effective cooperation, taking into consideration the priorities and the basic needs of our partners. As a consequence of the profound changes that affected the world economy after the Second World War, it has become current knowledge that the world is today characterized primarily by the globalization of the economy. However, the new challenge which faces the international community today lies in coping with 13 economic and social development issues in all their dimensions, and doing so in harmony with our efforts to achieve peace and security. The liberalization of world markets and the globalization and comprehensiveness of the world economy have led to a noticeable increase in the volume of trade and financial flows. However, this has not eased the marginalization of developing countries or reduced their debt burden. Morocco, which has been following with interest the activities of the World Trade Organization (WTO), considers that liberalization of trade must be basically aimed at correcting existing discrepancies and at narrowing the gap between developed and developing countries. We hope that the second WTO conference, due to take place in Geneva, will provide a new opportunity for the international community which leads to consolidating the bases and rules governing multilateral relations, and to taking decisions likely to reconcile the imperative for trade liberalization and the requirements of development, while responding to the aspirations of developing countries by allowing them, if necessary, to adopt protectionist trade measures. With regard to the question of the Sahara, Morocco, which cooperated with Mr. James Baker as soon as he was appointed Personal Envoy of the Secretary-General for Western Sahara, hopes that the results achieved will allow for the implementation of the United Nations settlement plan. In this regard, Morocco, which took the initiative of proposing a referendum in 1981, stresses once more its readiness and desire to cooperate with the United Nations for the achievement of this objective. The most important achievement of the international community in this century, to which we soon bid farewell, was the end of colonialism in almost all regions of the world. In the past few months, the world has witnessed the return of Hong Kong to its parent country, the People's Republic of China, and Macao will also be so returned in 1999. In the light of the example of Hong Kong and the plans for the future of Macao, logic now dictates the elimination of all remaining pockets of colonialism throughout the world. Here I am referring in particular to the Moroccan cities of Sebta and Melilla and the islands adjacent to them, which remain under Spanish domination. Morocco has always believed in the virtues of dialogue as a civilized way of reaching a final settlement to the problem of Sebta and Melilla so as to enable Morocco to regain its sovereignty over those territories while guaranteeing Spain's interests. It was in this context that His Majesty King Hassan II took the initiative in calling for the setting up of a Moroccan-Spanish unit to consider a final solution to this question. This initiative implies a greater rapprochement between the two countries, whose impact would spread to wider and more comprehensive fields. Humankind is still committed to the noble purposes laid down in the Charter of our Organization. It is therefore incumbent upon us to pursue efforts aiming at the furtherance of those purposes so that, together, in a spirit of confidence and renewed hope, we may bring about a better future for all of humankind.   ﻿Mr. President, it is a pleasure for me to join preceding speakers in congratulating you on the high distinction bestowed upon you and your country through your election to preside over this regular session of the General Assembly, to which we have all come imbued with our shared aspirations for the future of mankind. Once again, we come to this forum to convey the warmest greetings of solidarity, peace and hope of the people and Government of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea and, in particular, to express my country’s views on the issues to be debated at this session. We are three years away from a new millennium. This waiting period is an opportunity to think deeply about the challenges it has in store for us. We have moved in a very short time from a bipolar world, marked by the cold war and both strategic and ideological confrontations, to the new dynamics of globalization and the interdependence of States in their relations within the international system. Indeed, when we consider that the millennium is about to end and that our Organization has now been in existence for more than 50 years, we must admit that a great deal has been achieved in terms of progress for mankind, particularly in the spheres of economic, scientific and technological development. Unfortunately, however, there are still grey areas of uncertainty as regards the future of mankind and the possibilities of establishing peace and security throughout the world. In third world countries such as ours, for example, the lives of millions of people have been affected by a halt to progress and development as a result of extreme poverty, wars and armed conflicts and of the resurgence of mercenary activities and organized crime. In brief, the people are subjected to wanton violence, and as a result social, political and economic systems are breaking down. We believe that the burden placed on our peoples is too great and that their problems require a lasting and stable response from the United Nations, to include the elimination of neo-interventionist practices; the prevention of conflicts; the reduction of poverty; the elimination of neo-protectionist barriers in world trade; and help in the fight against terrorism, fundamentalism and anachronistic nationalism. The preservation of the environment and the fight against drug-trafficking and the consumption of illicit drugs must also be prime objectives of our collective action. These problems are not restricted to the territory of a single State, and therefore their solution demands the involvement and solidarity of all nations the world over, in a context of consensus and more coordinated international cooperation. This, in turn, creates the need to ensure democratic reform of institutions and organizations of a global scope. The division of the world into categories must become a thing of the past, although we agree that some among us 7 must shoulder special responsibilities vis-à-vis mankind since they, in a sense, are the ones responsible for certain threats that face us: the nuclear threat, the large-scale production and sale of armaments, the deterioration of the environment and the exercise of absolute power over the economy, finance and advances in science, technology and information. For if a third world exists today, it is only because someone exploited it to create a first world. We do not intend to wait for the emergence of a fourth world whose means and resources we can exploit to become developed. The point is to make sure that the resources amassed by the first world, the countries of the North, are today made available to the developing countries. For that to happen, the international trading system must be fair, poverty must be reduced, the social development and scientific and technological advance of developing countries must be fostered and the debt problem must be alleviated. In short, the differences in the quality of life that separate the citizens of the North from those of the South must be drastically reduced, in a spirit of open solidarity that will work for the progress and development of all countries. All these aspects are the real issues to be discussed as we strive to attain lasting world peace and sustainable development in the coming millennium. The United Nations must therefore become a much more global and democratic world Organization so that it can take a dynamic approach to the problems weighing on mankind. It must be modernized, brought up to date and in tune with the new times, able to express the common will of all nations. Therefore, it must be restructured. In this connection, Equatorial Guinea feels, as do many others, that it is time to reform the decision-making body of the United Nations, the Security Council. With regard to reform, we do not know whether it is the number of the Council’s members that has prevented the United Nations from functioning with greater flexibility and efficiency. Nor are we sure that an increase in the number of permanent members will make for a more representative United Nations. What we must attempt to gain is more voices expressing the will of the peoples to see a more prosperous, peaceful and lastingly stable world. If this cannot be achieved by returning to the General Assembly its legitimate rights, it would be reasonable to have more members of the Security Council representing the regions and to ensure that the rules governing the use of the veto take into account the interest of the majority. Equatorial Guinea is interested in ensuring that we have a properly functioning mechanism for agreement that reflects, above all, the spirit of equity and justice within the United Nations. For Equatorial Guinea, which is a small country in terms of both area and population, the democratic functioning of the United Nations provides a guarantee of security and stability in international relations and, above all, ensures scrupulous respect for every nation’s right of sovereignty. It is no idle claim that countries like ours do not receive appropriate treatment in relations between States. This applies, for example, to the vague demands relating to the universal principle of respect for fundamental human rights, which include political, economic and social rights. In the specific case of Equatorial Guinea, it is neither understandable nor acceptable that, despite our great efforts to achieve a participatory democracy and respect for human rights, international public opinion is still being manipulated by some in order to project a false image of our country to the outside world for reasons that are inconsistent with this universal principle. We do not believe that anyone has a monopoly on values and virtues in this respect. However, some years ago my country reached the conclusion that respect for human rights comes from a continuous process and not from an immediate response to criteria and demands imposed by groups or individuals with partisan political interests. It is in this context that the Government of Equatorial Guinea, of its own free will, is participating in and cooperating with all the initiatives of the United Nations and certain friendly countries to consolidate respect for human rights in the country. To that end, working with the United Nations Commission on Human Rights and the United Nations Centre for Human Rights, we have already organized various training, educational and information programmes relating to human rights. My country is also proud to be one of the few countries in the world that, of its own free will, has agreed with another country — in our case, the United States of America — a technical and financial assistance programme for measures aimed at the better exercise within our society of all human rights. In the context of this programme, far-reaching legal reforms have been set out to regulate this exercise of rights, as well as to achieve better administration and governance by the State. All these measures will be free from political interference based on ideological or partisan interests. 8 From this rostrum, therefore, I should like to confirm to international public opinion that in Equatorial Guinea human rights form an integral part of the priorities of the Government and of all the political forces of the nation and that we are critiquing and continuously assessing our progress. We do not, therefore, need either the approval or the guidance of any other society or institution in order to evaluate this tangible reality. Nor do we need any favourable or unfavourable propaganda from international media that may be linked to interests and pressure groups with hidden agendas. We certainly agree that the same degree of pressure that is brought to bear with regard to the political rights of peoples must also be brought to bear in order to bring about more concrete support for the right of peoples to development and the progress of nations. It is our unanimous desire that in the third millennium the millions of men, women and children of the world will have the right to health services, education, decent housing, drinking water, electricity, food and clothing. But this objective cannot be achieved through restrictive measures and policies or through discriminatory economic blockades. We also wish to note that even these policies are not applied equitably throughout the international community. Nevertheless, thanks to our strong conviction that we must play the principal role in our own development, today more than ever Equatorial Guinea is being targeted by certain forces and is becoming a strategically and economically significant zone in the subregion of central Africa. At the economic level, our country has just attained the status of oil-producing country, and attempts are being made to destabilize it for purposes of hegemony and for strategic reasons. Exactly five months ago, thanks to the spirit of African solidarity demonstrated by our sister republic of Angola, my country was saved from an attempted invasion by mercenaries, which was organized and financed by certain foreign political groups with murky and undisclosed designs on our nation. Instability in the subregion of central Africa is today threatening the security of the region and the continent. Plans, strategies and machinery for destabilization are being fashioned from outside the region that are capable of destroying the present incipient democratic regimes in the region. Powerful communications media are actively involved in systematically distorting, disinformation and the misrepresentation of everything that is happening in the region. The situation in Angola, the Republic of the Congo, Rwanda and Burundi, as well as the recent conflicts in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, have been presented to international public opinion as Dantesque and apocalyptic. We ask the United Nations to follow up on everything that is taking place in this region, particularly in the area of the Gulf of Guinea, from the Niger river delta to the enclave of Cabinda, as well as in the Great Lakes region. In the specific case of the Republic of the Congo, a sister country with which we share common interests, the Government of Equatorial Guinea fully supports the international mediation efforts of the President of the Republic of Gabon, Mr. El Hadj Omar Bongo and of the special representative of the United Nations and of the Organization of African Unity (OAU). We have the feeling that a new cold war is being waged in Africa based on cultural and linguistic influences. The fact that English, French, Portuguese and Spanish languages are spoken should only serve to enrich our values and capacities in terms of international cooperation and should be not a factor for confrontation and antagonism based on hegemony. This phenomenon has a serious adverse effect on our ability to achieve unity at the continental level in Africa for the peaceful resolution of conflicts. We therefore appeal to the United Nations and the OAU to initiate consensus-based actions that will lead to the reduction of such differences. In this context, my Government is making efforts to maintain an internal and regional balance by developing a policy based on dialogue, consensus and good- neighbourliness, which are indispensable tools for ensuring peace and security in the continent. In this process of political and economic change there have been setbacks and difficulties, but we have kept determinedly to the upward path that will enable us to leave behind a past that produced severe economic regressiveness and a breakdown of democratic principles and values. We want Equatorial Guinea to be included fully within the dynamics of change and globalization. We want to ensure that we are incorporated into the regenerative trend of free market economy with a strong social component and dialogue based on patriotism, flexibility and tolerance among all the political forces and throughout civil society in our country. Indeed, we have just held, from 8 to 13 September 1997, a national economic conference designed essentially to bring about a national dialogue to achieve a definition 9 of a consensus-based strategy involving all political forces, civil society, non-governmental organizations and religious associations, with the participation of international agencies of the United Nations system, the World Bank, the European Union and African regional and subregional organizations, as well as friendly nations, aimed at implementing structural reforms in the economy and sustainable development of the country, through the rational and transparent use of oil, forest and fishing resources. In the political field, we will proceed with the free and transparent reform of laws regulating the exercise of democratic liberties to achieve better governance for our nation. We have the firm political determination to attain these objectives and to meet our commitments, and we appeal for international solidarity. I cannot conclude without expressing, on behalf of the Government of Equatorial Guinea, our warmest congratulations to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, on his wise and sound suggestions for reforming the bodies of the United Nations. Equatorial Guinea will continue to support those efforts, aimed at achieving more dynamic and flexible mechanisms and structures for peacekeeping and the promotion of balanced and sustainable social and economic development in the world. ﻿May I begin with a verse from the Holy Koran: (spoke in Arabic) “To each is a goal To which God turns him; Then strive together Towards all that is good. Wheresoever ye are, God will bring you Together. For God Hath power over all things.” (The Holy Koran, II:148) (spoke in English) I convey to you, Sir, and to the nations assembled here the greetings of our people in this golden jubilee year of Pakistan’s independence. Soon after achieving its independence, Pakistan was admitted to the United Nations. The half-century of Pakistan’s and the United Nations existence has been eventful. Through years of upheavals and dislocations, through turbulence and brief moments of tranquillity, we now stand at the threshold of a new century and a new millennium. The theme of world affairs has been transformed. During these 50 years, Pakistan has demonstrated its commitment to the principles and purposes of the Charter of the United Nations in word and deed. We have fulfilled our obligations to this Organization. We have adhered to its resolutions. We have contributed politically and materially to its collective endeavour to build peace and promote prosperity. We are especially proud of our contribution to United Nations peacekeeping operations worldwide. I wish to commend the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his determination and vision in carrying out his responsibilities. I would like to assure him that Pakistan will, as always, support all initiatives for the realization of the objectives set out in the United Nations Charter. We are fortunate to have a person of your stature and experience, Sir, to guide this session of the General Assembly. The items on its agenda are important and consequential, particularly the crucial issue of United Nations reform. I wish you every success. Doctrines of confrontation and containment are no longer valid. The new idea of our times is that of global partnership between the North and the South, the East and the West. The United Nations must forge this global compact. The creed of our era is peace and development. This is what the United Nations must focus on as it strives to bring about organizational reform. We support the process of reform in the United Nations. In pursuing this objective, we must bear in mind our successes and failures of the past 50 years. The centrality and sanctity of the Charter must be preserved as we move towards reconfiguring the United Nations. The United Nations today stands at the brink of bankruptcy. The reform cannot and must not be victim to the narrow strategic, political and administrative preferences of a chosen few as a means of regaining the Organization’s solvency. True reform has to take into account the interests of all. The United Nations is a universal Organization of 185 States and their 6 billion people. The purpose of its creation was to serve the interests of all humankind. This should be the guiding principle for its reform. There is undoubtedly need for reform. The map of the world has been redrawn. Many new States have emerged since 1945, when the United Nations was established. The reform that is envisaged must be designed to facilitate the objectives for which the United 7 Nations was created: to promote global peace, security, cooperation and prosperity. More than mere lip service must be done to the principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter, such as the sovereign equality of all its Members and equal rights for all nations, large or small. The emergence of five veto- wielding permanent members of the Security Council was the consequence of an unfortunate afterthought. It was completely incompatible with the democratic ethos of the United Nations Charter. The result was the impotence and inaction of the United Nations during the cold war years. The legitimization and enlargement of the privileged club of veto powers would deal a crippling body blow to the ability of the United Nations to carry out its responsibilities. The contours of a multipolar world are gradually emerging. In the event of a resumption of great-Power rivalries, the proliferation of the veto will once again freeze the Security Council into irrelevance. It is ironical that the countries which practice democracy at home and advocate it abroad should want to create a new aristocracy of States. Any decision on Security Council reform that is not backed by the consensus of all the Member States of the United Nations will erode the credibility and undermine the legitimacy of the Council and of the United Nations. The Charter of the United Nations rejects hegemony. International peace and security have to be built through cooperative efforts. This entails the resolution of disputes through negotiations, mediation and arbitration. It means removing the causes of war and conflict. It involves the promotion of global prosperity and development. It necessitates adherence to the resolutions of the United Nations, particularly those of the Security Council. The enforcement of peace should be undertaken only in response to actual acts of aggression or breaches. It must be pursued collectively and fairly, not imposed arbitrarily by the strong over the weak. Nowhere does the Charter provide for pre-emptive penalties against States for arms proliferation or presumed threats to peace. A central weakness of the United Nations is that some members are expected to pay their contributions to its budget fully, unconditionally and on time, while others delay payments. The principle of capacity-to-pay-is fair; it should not be unilaterally discarded. At the same time, alternate sources of funding have to be explored in order to make the United Nations immune to pressure, unhealthy influence and hostile onslaughts. The intention of the Charter was to place the United Nations at the apex of the system of international organizations that were created at the end of the Second World War. The Charter rightly perceived political, security, economic, social, cultural and humanitarian issues to be interrelated. It therefore called for coordinated approaches and policies to address those issues. To achieve this, it is essential for the United Nations to become the central link for the entire family of international organizations, without exception. Only then will the world community be able to address successfully the host of diverse, complex and interrelated problems it confronts. On its fiftieth anniversary, Pakistan — like the United Nations — has embarked upon the course of reform and renewal. In this endeavour, we are inspired by the eternal ideals of Islam in which justice, equity and human rights, especially those of women and minorities, are the central pillars. Islam draws no distinction between creeds. It accepts all religions. Thus, the Holy Koran declares: (spoke in Arabic) “Say ye: We believe In God, and the revelation Given to us, and to Abraham, Isma¯ ı¯l, Isaac, Jacob, And the Tribes, and that given To Moses and Jesus, and that given To (all) Prophets from their Lord: We make no difference Between one and another of them: And we bow to God (in Islam).'” (The Holy Koran, II:136) (spoke in English) My Government is vigorously addressing the political, economic and social problems we inherited from the past. We have taken measures to consolidate parliamentary democracy through constitutional means; to restore financial equilibrium through austerity and structural adjustments while enhancing business incentives and economic liberalization; to combat corruption, drugs and terrorism — which is often sponsored from abroad — through effective law enforcement and speedy and fair justice. 8 These policies have yielded dividends. We look to the future with hope and optimism. Our economy is open and dynamic. Domestic and foreign investment is growing rapidly. Our people are imaginative, skilful and hard- working. We have demonstrated that we can master the most advanced technologies. We can now deter external aggression. With confidence in ourselves, we seek friendship and cooperation with all our neighbours on the basis of equality. Pakistan strives for peace and stability in its region. We seek an early end to the conflict in Afghanistan; a just and fair settlement of the Jammu and Kashmir dispute in accordance with the resolutions of the United Nations; an end to the wasteful arms race in South Asia; and the development of the immense economic and commercial potential of South and Central Asia. We have the courage to strive for peace and the wisdom to know that it is essential for development. South Asia, with one-fifth of the world’s population, remains mired in poverty and deprivation. I call upon India to join us in liberating our peoples from the dreadful grip of poverty. This can only be achieved by removing the causes of conflict and hostility. The conflict that has ravaged Afghanistan for almost two decades must be brought to an end. No country in the world has suffered more than Pakistan as a consequence of the turmoil. We therefore have a vital interest in the restoration of durable peace and stability in Afghanistan. Towards this end we have been in contact with all Afghan groups in support of the efforts of the United Nations aimed at promoting an intra-Afghan peace process. We favour no faction in Afghanistan. We have recognized the present authorities in Kabul, as we did the previous entities that controlled the capital. We have encouraged moderation and dialogue so that a stable, multi- ethnic Government can emerge. We request the Secretary- General of the United Nations to take specific initiatives for the early restoration of peace and the preservation of the sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of Afghanistan. My Government has also taken initiatives to resume the stalled dialogue with India. We had agreed last June on a comprehensive agenda and a mechanism to deal with all issues, including the core issue of Jammu and Kashmir, in a sustained manner. We have, unfortunately, not yet succeeded in setting up the agreed mechanism to launch substantive negotiations on all the issues on the agenda of our dialogue. We hope that India will reciprocate our sincerity of purpose in substantively addressing all the issues and carrying forward this process of dialogue to a positive outcome. The resolutions of the Security Council define Kashmir as a disputed territory whose accession to either Pakistan or India is to be determined through a plebiscite supervised by the United Nations. Under the Simla Agreement of 1972, India agreed to a final settlement of the Jammu and Kashmir dispute with Pakistan. The existence of the Kashmir dispute cannot be denied. The right of self-determination is sacrosanct. It has repeatedly been affirmed by the United Nations. The people of Kashmir are justified in asking why this pledge by the international community has not been honoured as yet. The Security Council cannot be selective in the implementation of its resolutions. The Kashmiri people have risen against Indian occupation. Their resolute struggle for the restitution of their fundamental rights belies the claim that Kashmir is an integral part of India. I am sad to say that the repression of the people of Jammu and Kashmir continues unabated. More than 600,000 Indian troops in Kashmir continue to brutalize the people. Custodial killings, disappearances, arbitrary arrests and summary executions are daily occurrences. Thousands of Kashmiri civilians have been killed, while 32,000 languish in detention centres. I learned just this morning of the shelling of Arin in Kashmir by the Indian forces yesterday, a mortar attack in which 11 persons were killed and 12 injured. Six children and three women were among the dead. This is an altogether familiar occurrence in occupied Kashmir. If India is serious in its allegation that the conflict in Kashmir is being stoked by interference from Pakistan it should have no hesitation in allowing the United Nations observers present in Kashmir to verify this claim. We hope that the United Nations will increase the number of these observers and ask India to allow their stationing on its side of the line of control as well. The international community has a responsibility to bring about a just settlement of the Kashmir dispute. The pledge of self-determination given to the people of Jammu and Kashmir has to be redeemed. On our part, we welcome the offers made by the Secretary-General, the United States and others to help in resolving the Kashmir dispute. 9 My Government will persevere in the dialogue with India for the sake of our people and the peoples of South Asia. We hope that India can be persuaded to take some steps to create a climate conducive to the success of the talks. These could include, first, a halt in its campaign of repression against the people of Kashmir; secondly, the withdrawal of at least those Indian troops which are engaged in internal repression in Kashmir; and, finally, the evolution of a mechanism to take into account the wishes of the Kashmiri people, as stipulated by the United Nations, for a final settlement. It is imperative now to negotiate arrangements to strengthen peace and security between India and Pakistan. Since 1974 Pakistan has pursued its proposal for a nuclear- weapon-free zone in South Asia. On the other hand, India has taken successive steps to escalate its nuclear and missile capabilities. What does India mean when it repeatedly asserts that its nuclear option is “open”? Does this imply that, like chemical weapons, India has already manufactured nuclear weapons? In the absence of any assurances to the contrary, Pakistan will have to assume the worst. India’s nuclear-capable Prithvi missile is being serially produced. These missiles specifically target Pakistan. They have been moved adjacent to our borders. This creates a hair-trigger security environment. The development and possible deployment of the medium-range Agni missile and India’s planned acquisition of theatre missile-defence systems will further aggravate this tense security environment. It will evoke the natural response from Pakistan to safeguard and augment its security and deterrence capability. India must be persuaded to reverse its missile programme. To preserve peace and stability in South Asia and beyond, we propose that Pakistan and India should reach agreement for mutual and equal restraint in the nuclear and ballistic fields. In this context, we are deeply concerned about India’s acquisition of missiles and its plans for the acquisition of anti-missile systems. We also propose a similar arrangement for mutual and equitable restraint on conventional weapons which ensures equal security to both Pakistan and India. We are prepared to conclude and strengthen confidence- building measures. As a first step, we could agree on a set of principles to guide future bilateral arms- control arrangements. We believe that a just settlement of the Jammu and Kashmir dispute and progress on the issues of peace and security will usher in an era of amity and progress in South Asia. To facilitate the realization of this objective, I offer today, from this rostrum, to open negotiations on a treaty of non-aggression between Pakistan and India. There are many areas in which we can cooperate for mutual benefit. Trade liberalization can take place on an equitable basis. Significant foreign investment can be drawn to the region. In the expectation that the Pakistan-India dialogue will have made a heartening advance by next year, my Government intends to host a regional economic summit in 1998, which could help to open new vistas for economic progress and prosperity for our region. All this and much more can be achieved if India joins us in pursuing our current dialogue to its successful culmination. We have demonstrated our sincerity of purpose. It is for India to reciprocate. Located at the nexus of Central Asia, South Asia and the Middle East, Pakistan can contribute to and gain from the economic growth and interaction between these dynamic regions. The United Nations and its family of organizations have a crucial role to play in generating prosperity and restoring peace with justice to these vital regions of the world. Today, I wish to renew Pakistan’s commitment to the United Nations, to its purposes and principles and to its vision of a world where genuine peace reigns and prosperity is universal. The vision of the founding fathers of the United Nations must continue to serve as a beacon guiding us across the uncharted waters of the coming millennium. The Charter of the United Nations and its timeless principles provide us the anchor to weather turmoil and turbulence. Let us renew our determination to defend and preserve this anchor of hope and faith. Let not political expediencies infringe or erode the fundamentals of international cooperation enshrined in the Charter. We in Pakistan, who had dared to dream of freedom 50 years ago, are resolved to defend freedom — freedom from war, oppression, injustice, poverty and deprivation. Let us all move together towards realizing the vision of the United Nations. 10  ﻿I should like to join those who have spoken before me in offering you, Sir, my warmest congratulations on your outstanding election to the presidency of our Assembly. To your illustrious predecessor, Mr. Razali Ismail of Malaysia, my delegation reaffirms its satisfaction with the efficiency and competence with which he guided the work of the fifty-first session. We wish once again to convey to him our sincere appreciation. I also wish once again to welcome the election of Mr. Kofi Annan as Secretary-General of our Organization. In raising him to this position, the international community recognized the qualities that have brought honour to him, his country and the entire African continent. On behalf of my delegation, I pay tribute to him for his dedication to the cause of international peace and security and for all he is doing to make the United Nations more effective and credible by improving its capacity to meet the needs of today’s world. Two years ago, we celebrated the United Nations first half-century. We recommitted ourselves solemnly to working together to advance peace, development, equality, justice and understanding among all the peoples of the world. The current session provides us with another opportunity to assess our collective work at a time when we are preparing to enter the twenty-first century with major achievements under our belt, to be sure, but also with innumerable challenges to face. In its ongoing quest to make life better for peoples, our Organization has adopted and is implementing alternative strategies to meet the demands of a world in constant change. The proclamation of the United Nations Decade for the Eradication of Poverty, the advancement of the rights of women and children, and the convening of a special session of the General Assembly on environment and development are all actions demonstrating the determination of the United Nations to address the great problems of our time. But we must recognize that, despite the efforts of the international community to establish a new world order, we are still waiting for the ardently desired peace, security, development and growth to materialize. Despite the detente that has existed since the end of the East-West antagonism, the international political situation continues to present a gloomy picture, marked by ongoing disputes, tensions and conflicts. Even if piecemeal efforts are made to settle these crises, definitive solutions seem to elude us. Thus, we remain deeply concerned for the future of mankind. Moreover, our helplessness in the face of resurgent terrorism, worsening poverty, the ever growing number of refugees and displaced persons and the deterioration of the environment dims our hope that the noble objectives laid down in the Charter to build a better world for future generations will ever come true. In this context, Togo, under the guidance of the President of the Republic, Mr. Gnassingbé Eyadema, is striving to strengthen the political and legal bases of a state of law and to make development and, above all, the eradication of poverty the cornerstones of its policy. The citizens of Togo have entered a new era in the achievement of greater liberty, justice and progress in order to make their country a democratic, united and prosperous nation. Every day, they demonstrate their will to reflect in their actions this deep-rooted desire to live together in peace and unity. According to experienced observers of good faith, the democratic institutions established in Togo are proving themselves. The National Assembly, having become an outstanding forum for democratic debate, is living proof of the country’s commitment to entrench itself in democracy. Most of the other institutions of the Republic provided for under the Constitution have been established — for example, the High Audiovisual and Communication Authority, the Constitutional Court, the National Commission for Human Rights and the Supreme Council for the Courts. Aware, moreover, that they control their own destiny, the Togolese have decided to work together towards a sound and transparent administration of public affairs. How could we not, therefore, be pleased by the economic performances achieved thanks to efforts made for the effective implementation of the Government programme? The gross domestic product increased by 6 per cent in 1996, and the rate of inflation has shown a clear improvement compared to 1995 thanks to a prudent wages and monetary policy. Improved export competitiveness and the progressive resumption of cooperation have allowed us to correct the balance of 5 payments and strengthen Togo’s contribution to the reserves of the West African Economic and Monetary Union. The people of Togo hope that the community of nations will continue to support it in its progress towards legitimacy and legality by helping it to complete the work of economic recovery. The maintenance of peace continues to be the primary task of the United Nations. One cannot over-emphasize that preventing crises, reducing tension, separating combatants and finding definitive solutions to conflicts continue to be among the fundamental missions of our Organization. We are pleased to see in Togo that the United Nations, through concerted actions, continues day by day to do even more. My country confirms its unswerving dedication to the principle of the peaceful settlement of disputes, in accordance with international law, and emphasizes the need to strengthen in this area cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations. Chapter VIII of the Charter would then take on its full meaning. Despite every effort, peace remains threatened on our planet, particularly on the African continent. As regards the Republic of the Congo, Togo is concerned over the situation there since 5 June 1997. We keenly hope that the protagonists will put aside their arms in favour of dialogue in accordance with the spirit of Libreville Summit, held on 14 and 15 September 1997, in which eight Heads of State, including President Eyadema of Togo, participated. The Government of Togo urgently calls upon our brothers in the Congo to conclude as quickly as possible a final ceasefire so that, under the aegis of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity (OAU), the international interposition force planned by that last summit can be deployed. As regards the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Togo, needless to say, was involved in the search for a peaceful solution to the crisis by hosting in Lomé last March a special summit of the Central Organ of the OAU Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution in Africa. Faced with a new political situation, my Government would urge the authorities in Kinshasa to do everything in their power to provide a climate favourable to national reconciliation in order to tackle the priority tasks of development. In Sierra Leone, the hope born of the establishment of a democratic regime and the signing of the peace agreement in Abidjan in November 1996 between the Government and the Revolutionary United Front was thoroughly tested by the putsch of 25 May 1997. My country strongly condemned this coup. It is demanding the reestablishment of constitutional order and earnestly hopes that this question can be peacefully resolved in order to avoid another crisis for the West African subregion at a time when the Liberian conflict is coming to a close. The people of Togo are pleased to note that, on the basis of the Abuja Agreement, the presidential, legislative and senatorial elections were finally able to take place last 19 July in an atmosphere of discipline, transparency and peace. My delegation takes this opportunity to congratulate the mission carried out by the Economic Community of West African States, supported by the United Nations and the OAU, from the beginning of the conflict to the establishment of new democratic institutions. I should like, moreover, given the instability that Africa is experiencing, to remind the parties concerned that they must seek to prevent fratricidal conflicts, which diverts their energy from the path of development. More thought should therefore be given to establishing an African peacekeeping force, which was first suggested by President Eyadema at the thirtieth session of the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the OAU, held in Tunisia in 1994. There is now an imperative, urgent need to establish such a force, which could react promptly and effectively to any armed conflict, in order to reestablish peace and stability as quickly as possible wherever necessary. I would like again this year to return to the question of the Regional Centre of the United Nations for Peace and Disarmament in Africa and to welcome the sending by the Secretary-General of a mission of consultants to Lomé and other African capitals to explore ways and means of revitalizing the Centre. It is clear from the decision taken in Harare by the thirty-third session of the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the OAU that the Centre has a vital role to play in the maintenance of peace and security in Africa as well as in the prevention of conflicts on the continent. I cannot fail to mention here the situation in other parts of the world. Regarding the Middle East, my country, which had in the past hailed the courage, dedication and spirit of initiative of the Israeli and Palestinian leaders in the implementation of the timetable for the withdrawal from the occupied territories, is today concerned about the blocking of the peace process in the region. We deplore the continuation of the settlements policy and the 6 resumption of acts of violence, which only serve to undermine the climate of confidence that is a prerequisite for the pursuit of dialogue. Togo urges the parties to resume negotiations in accordance with the Agreements of 1993 and 1994 in order to relaunch the peace process and achieve a comprehensive and lasting settlement of the conflict in the Middle East, which has lasted now for more than half a century and is a threat to the peace and security of the States of the region. I turn to the situation in the Korean Peninsula. Togo has been following with great interest the talks under way and calls for the establishment of lasting peace in this region. We hope that the negotiations that have begun will continue and will be crowned with success. Everyone is aware that most of these conflicts have claimed, and continue to claim, numerous victims, including refugees and displaced persons. The proliferation of weapons, whatever their type, is a threat to peace and security. To be sure, commendable efforts have been made to create a world free from the spectre of nuclear war. However, it must be emphasized that the maintenance of international peace and security hinges on general and complete disarmament. My country hailed the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and considers the entry into force on 29 April this year of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction to be a decisive act by the international community in its permanent quest for a peaceful world. In ratifying this Convention, Togo wished to stress its unequivocal commitment to general and complete disarmament. It hopes that implementing the provisions of this Convention will help spare mankind the innumerable evils resulting from the use of such weapons. Regarding anti-personnel landmines, my country hails the process begun in Ottawa in 1996, which concluded in Oslo with the adoption of the treaty regarding the use, storage, production and transfer of those mines and their destruction. We hope that this treaty, which will open for signature next December in Ottawa, will be ratified and rigorously applied by all States, so that, because of its universal nature, many human lives may be saved. The end of the bipolarization associated with the cold war allowed the international community to glimpse a world in which efforts would henceforth be mobilized to eliminate poverty so as to ensure development and well- being for humankind. However, we are obliged to note that, despite this favourable environment for peace and economic expansion, poverty continues to grow unchecked and remains a striking phenomenon in our world. This situation provides a good illustration of the failure of the numerous development strategies put forward by the international community. In this context, the case of Africa remains the most worrying. The burden of external debt, the drop in export earnings and the adverse consequences of trade imbalances have largely contributed to an increased deterioration in socio-economic conditions in many countries. The world economy, characterized, as we near the end of the century, by the phenomenon of globalization, has experienced a general growth in almost all countries over the past few years. It is regrettable, however, that despite this globalization the new rules of trade have not made it possible to dismantle the barriers erected by the industrialized countries to protect their industry and agriculture. It follows that it is still difficult for our products to gain access to their markets. These protectionist measures, which do enormous damage to developing countries, especially in Africa, cancel out the efforts made by African countries to relaunch the growth of their economies through exports. We cannot stress enough how much damage is caused by the closing of the markets of the North to the products of developing countries. This situation deprives the countries of the South of substantial foreign-currency income, which are necessary to promote sustained development. In this respect, the Government of Togo fully appreciates the willingness of the richest countries, reaffirmed last June at the Denver Summit, intend to open their markets further to the countries of the South. We believe that by lifting their protectionist barriers the developed countries will make a genuine and tangible contribution to the development efforts being made by the less well-off. In this light, my Government believes that globalization must be accompanied by an impetus for increased solidarity, characterized by the willingness of the countries of the North to buy our staple commodities at remunerative prices. Despite the commendable efforts undertaken by African Governments within the framework of structural- adjustment programmes, the economic situation in our 7 States remains difficult, and living conditions for our populations are increasingly precarious. Given this state of affairs, the international community has developed various strategies to help the African States find viable and lasting solutions to their many socio-economic problems. It is important to welcome here the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative on Africa, which my delegation believes supports and complements the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s (UN-NADAF), as well as the Cairo Programme of Action for the social and economic development of Africa. My country also pays tribute to the Government of Japan which, in addition to its unfailing support to developing countries, has taken the positive initiative of planning to convene, in 1998, the second Tokyo International Conference on African Development. It is very desirable for the various parties involved in African development who will be participating in that forum, including Africans themselves, to become more involved in the conception and the implementation of development programmes for out continent. Development policies for our countries cannot be conceived today without cooperation and regional integration. In this respect, the entry into force of the Treaty establishing the African Economic Community is a good illustration of the will of the African States to pool their efforts to achieve sustainable development. Togo would like to reaffirm its commitment to the policy of economic integration of the continent and urges the United Nations and the international community to support the African countries in their efforts to achieve the objectives of sustainable development so as to promote prosperity and well-being for their populations. We are pleased to note that 52 years after the adoption of the Charter in San Francisco, many processes are under way, aimed in particular at strengthening the United Nations system, resolving the financial crisis of the Organization and restructuring the United Nations in the social and economic spheres and in related areas, including the Security Council. With regard to the Security Council in particular, it is important that the ongoing discussions on its restructuring aim at and succeed in expanding the number of both permanent and non-permanent members. Such an enlargement should take into account the interests of developing countries and should be based on equitable geographic representation in order to make the Council more representative and more democratic, thereby enabling it to respond more effectively to the requirements of the day. Within the framework of efforts to revitalize the Organization, my delegation has noted with interest the measures envisaged by the Secretary-General and the recommendations contained in his report, presented on 16 July, which are aimed at restructuring the Secretariat and providing it with the means to serve the Member States more effectively. At this session the Assembly will have an opportunity to take part in a careful and in-depth consideration of that report. Togo wishes to stress that the decisions and measures resulting from such consideration should not reduce the capacity of the Organization in the development field. We therefore hope, as the Secretary- General himself has proposed, that the savings resulting from more rigorous management will permit the financing of United Nations priority programmes, such as those for the elimination of poverty and the advancement of sustained economic growth in the developing countries. At the dawn of the third millennium, humankind is at a decisive stage in its history and requires greater pragmatism, creativity and solidarity in settling its problems. In this respect, our world, in a spirit of solidarity, must mobilize further to eliminate poverty, which is the vital concern of our time, as it impedes the cohesiveness of societies and States, destroys the very basis of human rights and damages the environment. We therefore need to tackle this principal cause of instability — poverty — with the same urgency and vigour that we apply to political crises. For it is clear that no system of collective security can be viable unless we seek effectively to resolve the problems of poverty and misery that are the daily lot of most of the population of the world. Together, therefore, let us seek a new international order based on peace, solidarity and justice.  ﻿In accordance with tradition, I take this opportunity to begin by congratulating the President most warmly on his assumption of the presidency of the fifty-second session of the United Nations General Assembly. His unanimous election, which has placed him in this highly responsible post in this important international arena, is a warm tribute to his country, Ukraine. I wish him every possible success in the discharge of his difficult duties. I would also like to congratulate his predecessor, Mr. Razali Ismail, Permanent Representative of Malaysia, 14 on his dynamic presidency during the last session of the General Assembly. The Lao delegation also wishes to express its appreciation to Mr. Kofi Annan, our new Secretary-General, for his good work so far. His first nine months at the helm of our Organization have been a time of strenuous effort and resolute action aimed at reforming our universal Organization to make it more effective and better suited to meeting today’s challenges. To our new Secretary-General, we express our sincere wishes for success in shouldering his weighty and great responsibilities. The general trend towards dialogue and cooperation between States and peoples for the progress of humankind in this new era continues to characterize international relations. Clearly, we are delighted because on the whole this is highly positive. However, in several regions of the world we still witness persistent tension and conflict, due to interference in the internal affairs of States; the implementation of policies aimed at hegemony over developing States; and tribal, ethnic, religious and other divisions. This situation of tension and conflict is a potential threat to peaceful coexistence and harmony between States, and may even jeopardize the current atmosphere of international cooperation to promote development. In the interests of world peace, a sine qua non for the promotion of socio-economic development, we should work together patiently and resolutely, to find realistic and appropriate solutions as soon as possible. In Europe, the peace accords signed in Dayton on 14 December 1995 opened the door to resolving the painful and destructive conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We truly hope that the parties concerned will sincerely and strictly honour their commitments in order to preserve the fragile peace and cooperation in that region. In some African countries tribal and ethnic conflicts continue to rage, causing serious harm to their peoples. We express our sincere sympathy to the peoples of these countries over the untold suffering they have had to endure. The Lao People’s Democratic Republic considers it imperative that the international community, and in particular the countries concerned, redouble efforts to resolve these disputes as quickly as possible. In the Caribbean, multifaceted cooperation between the States of the region continues to grow, thus contributing to peace and security in that part of the world. In this context, it is time the United States of America made greater efforts and undertook reasonable negotiations with the Republic of Cuba to resolve their differences, in the interest of both the American and the Cuban peoples and in the interest of regional and global peace. In the Middle East, the establishment of the Palestinian Authority, in accordance with the Washington accords signed in 1993, marked a crucial stage in the search for a just and lasting solution to the Israeli- Palestinian conflict, which dates back over 30 years. The peace process which had been set in motion is now confronting grave difficulties, as the recent violence clearly demonstrates. The Lao People’s Democratic Republic expresses its grave concern regarding this situation. We very much hope that the parties concerned — Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization — will show great wisdom, and even greater restraint, and will engage in serious negotiations to resolve their problem, thus contributing to restoring peace and stability to this sensitive region. In the Korean peninsula, the implementation by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States of America of agreements that had been concluded and the recent opening in New York of preliminary quadripartite talks on peace in Korea are important stages in the efforts to ease tension and confrontation in that region. In this context, the Lao Government and people, while welcoming the efforts of the parties concerned, express their unswerving support for the legitimate aspirations of the Korean people to live in peace and achieve the peaceful reunification of the Korean homeland. In South-East Asia, efforts to strengthen economic, cultural and other cooperation and improve the settlement of disputes by peaceful means are clearly priorities. The admission of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic and Myanmar as fully fledged members of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) on 23 July last was a historic event of great significance. It is our firm hope that an ASEAN of 10 will become a reality in the near future and will contribute to strengthening our region, and making it more prosperous, in the interests of peace, stability and cooperation in Asia and the Pacific, and in the world at large. Another problem which has aroused international concern is the recent event in Cambodia. Fortunately, the current Government has been able to restore normality in accordance with the country’s legislative procedures. The international community, including the Lao People’s 15 Democratic Republic, continues to recognize and respect His Majesty King Norodom Sihanouk as Head of State of Cambodia. It is our hope that all countries and the United Nations will also respect his royal authority. In the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, political stability continues to be solidly guaranteed. The multi- ethnic Lao people are living in solidarity and unity — a fact which ensures social harmony. In accordance with our Constitution, the fourth elections for the National Assembly will be held in mid-December. That election will once again demonstrate the fervent patriotic spirit of the Lao people and the development of its democracy towards the establishment of a State of law, a State of the people, by the people and for the people. In the economic sphere, implementation of the renewal policy, which began in 1986, has made it possible for our economy to experience sustained growth, with an annual rate for the past five years of approximately 7 per cent. Unfortunately, this year, my country suffered equally sizeable losses because of natural disasters and the repercussions of financial recession in South-East Asia. Nonetheless, cooperation between Laos and the international community remains very strong. Parallel with its admission to ASEAN, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic continues to strengthen its relations of bilateral cooperation with neighbouring countries in the region and in the world on the basis of the principles of equality and mutual interest. In order to ensure the sustained development of the national economy, the Lao Government has taken important measures to integrate its economy and its market with those of the region and of the world. This integration is of great benefit to national and foreign investors thanks to the country’s economic and other potential such as its geographical location, in relation to major regional markets, its transit role, its role as a supplier of hydroelectric power to neighbouring countries and export producer, using the country’s raw materials, and its innumerable natural tourist attractions. Following up its endeavours and successes of the last 10 years through the implementation of its renewal policy, the Lao Government firmly intends to continue its policy of developing the country on the basis of a market economy and broadening relations of cooperation with the international community. Its aim is to extricate the country from its state of underdevelopment by the year 2020 and to establish a preliminary basis for its gradual transformation into an industrialized, modern country under the slogan “Building a strong and prosperous country, ensuring the well-being of the people, forming a civilized and fair society”. The world economy is seeing some signs of growth. Nonetheless, this growth falls short of expectations. We witness growing inequalities between developing and developed countries. The international economic environment in terms of access to markets and financial resources granted on preferential terms for development purposes is, in general, in decline. Faced with this situation, the developed countries must spare no effort to take the necessary steps by coordinating their macroeconomic policies in order to bring about a recovery of the world economy thanks to a stronger liberalization of trade, which would contribute to establishing an international economic environment more favourable to development. The problem of drug abuse remains a subject of international concern. My country has taken many national and international measures with a view to contributing to the global effort to eradicate this scourge from the face of the earth. For the first time, in May, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic was unanimously elected a member of the important Commission on Narcotic Drugs by the Economic and Social Council. We are profoundly grateful to the international community for this demonstration of confidence and support and we will make every effort to discharge our responsibilities honourably. Last June, after over three years of hard work, the General Assembly adopted, without a vote, An Agenda for Development. The Lao People’s Democratic Republic is pleased at its adoption, which it regards as an important stage in the effort to build a real partnership between the developed and developing countries. The Agenda for Development, a highly valuable document, provides a foundation of principles, objectives, measures and actions which can serve as a guide to Member States in the global approach to development questions in the immediate and long term and at the national and international levels. That June, the General Assembly met in special session to review the implementation of Agenda 21 five years after the Rio Summit on environment and development. At the conclusion of that session, a follow- up programme on the implementation of Agenda 21 was adopted without a vote; the importance of that implementation, inter alia, to the eradication of poverty in the years to come was stressed. The international 16 community is therefore called on to exert every effort to strengthen cooperation to make this programme a reality. As we near the twenty-first century, the United Nations — the only universal multilateral body — has an important role to play in the consideration and management of international affairs. If it is to be commensurate with that task, our Organization must adapt to the new dynamic and complex world. In this context, we express our sincere gratitude to our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the important initiatives of his programme of reform, issued last July, which aim at reorganizing our global body in order to make it more flexible in its structure and more efficient in its actions. This very important programme generally tries to take the interests of Member States into account. In considering these questions, it is necessary to emphasize that any reform process must have the primary goal of strengthening the Organization’s capacities to promote social and economic development for all States, particularly the developing among them. At the same time, this promotion must be undertaken while addressing questions related to peacekeeping, human rights and humanitarian activities. It is on the basis of these essential criteria that we would wish to see the Organization reformed and revitalized and given an improved structure, a more democratic regime and a solid financial footing. If we do so, the United Nations will be able effectively to meet the new challenges of our times.  ﻿South Africa welcomes your election, Sir, as the President of the General Assembly at its fifty-second session. We congratulate you having experienced at first hand your skills and role as Vice- Chairman of the Special Committee against Apartheid. We also express our appreciation to Ambassador Razali Ismail for his tireless work as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. May I also congratulate His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan on his election as the seventh Secretary-General of the United Nations. The zeal that the Secretary-General has displayed in addressing, through his reform proposals, the difficulties confronting this Organization is impressive. The Secretary-General’s reform programme is one that in many respects complements the intergovernmental process regarding the revitalization of the Organization. The General Assembly is well aware of the need to reform the United Nations. The process of reform should produce a revitalized Organization capable of addressing humanity’s vital issues of peace and security. Central to the process of modernization of the United Nations is the restructuring of the Security Council to redress existing imbalances and transform it into a transparent organ accountable to the broader membership of the Organization. South Africa fully supports the Non-Aligned Movement’s position that there should be no partial or selective expansion in the membership of the Security Council to the detriment of developing countries. The reaffirmation at the Organization of African Unity’s Harare Summit of Africa’s claim to two permanent and five non-permanent seats, with the same powers and prerogatives enjoyed by the current permanent members in an expanded Security Council, is consistent with the Charter principle of equitable geographical representation. If the Security Council is to fulfil the role of custodian of international peace and security envisaged for it in the Charter, it must be perceived to be fully legitimate by States and peoples. South Africa is therefore of the view that a limited expansion of only five or six new Security Council seats will not fulfil the crucial requirement of transforming the Security Council into a representative organ. Central to the Security Council reform process is the question of the veto, which has been a focal point in our deliberations for the last three and a half years. Indeed, the democratization of the Council hinges on the veto being either eliminated or extended to the new permanent members. Accordingly, the issue of the status of the veto must of necessity form an integral part of a comprehensive reform package. Permanent membership without the veto represents merely a symbolic gesture to new permanent members which would serve to perpetuate 13 an unjust and discriminatory practice and accord them an inferior status. I wish to recall that last year in the General Assembly, I registered South Africa’s disappointment with the slow pace of the debate relating to the reform of the Security Council. The time has come for us all to display the necessary political will and determination in order to reach agreement on a comprehensive set of measures which will lead to the creation of a Security Council which is transparent, democratic, accountable and thus credible and legitimate. The fifty-first session of the General Assembly also witnessed the conclusion of the work of the Open-ended High-level Working Group on the Strengthening of the United Nations System. Its notable recommendations regarding the strengthening of the role and functions of the General Assembly attest to the importance which we as Member States attach to this body as the supreme political organ of the Organization. It is, however, disappointing that on the issue relating to the election of a Secretary-General, the Working Group was unable to reach consensus on the recommendation to the permanent members of the Security Council to refrain from using the veto to block the outcome of the election. As a result of Africa’s painful past experiences under colonial domination, as well as the abhorrent system of apartheid, my Government is committed to the final eradication of colonialism and fully supports the effective implementation of the Plan of Action for the International Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism. We believe, therefore, that the Committee of 24 should continue its work in order to determine the interests of the peoples of Non-Self-Governing Territories regarding their future political status. We call on the administering Powers to lend their full cooperation to the Committee. South Africa is concerned that intra-State conflicts in Africa continue to pose a threat to the continent’s stability. These conflicts lead to loss of life and economic hardships and are a major stumbling block on the road towards peace and development. It is a matter of concern that conflicts in Africa persist despite the commendable efforts of the Organization of African Unity and of African leaders in conflict resolution. We therefore urge parties to the conflict in the Republic of the Congo to observe the ceasefire agreement and to make all efforts to ensure that the interim measures for the holding of national elections in 1998 are instituted. Similarly, we condemn the coup in Sierra Leone and implore Member States of the United Nations to support Africa’s efforts to restore constitutional order by refraining from recognizing or giving support in any form to the military Government. South Africa is committed to the promotion of peace in Angola, which we believe will contribute to the consolidation and extension of stability to the whole of our region of southern Africa. We are therefore concerned about the failure of UNITA to fulfil its obligations under the Lusaka Protocol. In this regard, my Government welcomes the decision of the Security Council to impose the punitive measures envisaged in its resolution 1127 (1997), as a means of ensuring UNITA’s compliance. South Africa has followed the unfolding developments in the Middle East with cautious optimism. South Africa, and indeed the international community, welcomed the signing of the Oslo accord by the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Israeli Government and applauded it as representing a positive step towards the full realization of the long-awaited comprehensive and just settlement in the region. But the decision of the Government of Israel to construct new Jewish settlements in Jebel Abu Ghneim has given rise to tensions and has generated a crisis situation which has reignited conflict in the region. We all know that this decision is a flagrant violation of the Fourth Geneva Convention of 1949 and of the relevant resolutions of this body. It is no doubt an attempt to change the legal status of Jerusalem and to pre- empt the final status negotiations. The inalienable right of the Palestinian people to self-determination is a prerequisite for achieving a durable and comprehensive peace. For peace and stability to prevail, the region requires the unconditional withdrawal of Israel from all Palestinian and Arab territories occupied since 1967. South Africa welcomes the Secretary-General’s latest initiatives currently under way to seek a lasting solution to the question of Cyprus. We urge all parties to make concerted efforts in working with the Secretary-General and his good offices towards an overall comprehensive settlement to this question, which has been on the agenda of the United Nations for more than 30 years. South Africa attaches great importance to preventive diplomacy as a means of forestalling the possibility of conflict. We commend the report of the Special 14 Committee on Peacekeeping Operations because it provides us with measures aimed at strengthening the role of the United Nations in peacekeeping. We also welcome the Committee’s 1997 report on peacekeeping operations and urge the Committee to address the question of the rapidly deployable mission headquarters and the further development of United Nations standby arrangements. South Africa believes that progress on disarmament issues will create a world free of war. The end of the cold war heralded a period of progress in disarmament and non- proliferation, as was evidenced by the entry into force of the Chemical Weapons Convention and the conclusion of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. However, the re-emergence of maximalist positions in the disarmament debate retards global disarmament, as demonstrated by the disappointing progress made at the Conference on Disarmament this year. Despite the consensual adoption of a mandate for the negotiation of a fissile-material cut-off treaty, one of the essential elements for complete nuclear disarmament, little progress has been made. Nevertheless, South Africa is encouraged by the large number of States which have committed themselves to the complete eradication of weapons of mass destruction by joining various non-proliferation and disarmament treaties during the past year. Universal adherence to important disarmament treaties will pave the way towards a world free of weapons of mass destruction. Humanity is faced with the daily threat of harm from the use of conventional weapons. High priority should be placed on strategies and policies intended to prevent the proliferation of conventional weapons and to reduce their flow to conflict areas. The conclusions reached by the United Nations Panel of Governmental Experts on Small Arms lay the foundation for future action by the international community. On 18 September 1997, the Oslo Diplomatic Conference adopted the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti- Personnel Mines and on Their Destruction. The Convention is a clear and total ban on anti-personnel mines and establishes a compelling new international norm against this scourge which has for so long afflicted humanity, especially innocent civilians, mostly women and children. South Africa looks forward to the early entry into force of the Convention and appeals to all States to heed the call of the international community against these inhumane weapons. South Africa has often expressed grave concern at the involvement of its nationals in mercenary activities, because these activities inhibit the achievement of peaceful solutions to internal conflicts and destabilize regions. Consequently, we have drafted legislation to regulate the rendering of military assistance by private individuals and companies to foreign Governments and agencies. The South African Government puts a high premium on the promotion and protection of human rights as a cornerstone of its foreign policy. As we approach the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the thirtieth of the International Year for Human Rights, we reaffirm our commitment to the preeminent values of basic human dignity, values for which we have fought and for which we must continue to fight. Our peoples deserve no less. In this context, my delegation supports the recommendation to convene a world conference on racism and racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance. My Government remains committed to addressing gender inequities. The worst manifestations of these unequal gender relations are the acts of violence committed against women and girls. My Government has pledged itself to preventing and combating this violence by, among other initiatives, aligning its legislation, policies and strategies with international instruments such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. South Africa believes in the strengthening of the role of the United Nations in the promotion of international cooperation for economic and social development. To this end, we welcome those measures in the Secretary- General’s proposed reform package which seek to strengthen the capacity of the United Nations and to revitalize its role in the context of development. The adoption of the Agenda for Development by the General Assembly was a milestone in our collective search for a meaningful global partnership for development. That the membership could reach agreement on so complex a matter is testimony to the seriousness with which States view the issue, and to the dynamics of consensus-building in fostering a global partnership. Member States should act to implement the Agenda for Development in a coordinated manner, by creating dynamic structures susceptible of successful delivery. South Africa remains committed to an action- orientated Agenda for Development which gives priority to international cooperation for development. Partnerships 15 for development, as envisaged also in the Midrand Ministerial Declaration and Partnership for Growth and Development, should be established to ensure effective delivery of assistance to the developing world. The problems of abject poverty and social deprivation continue to afflict and haunt many countries, particularly in the developing world. In order to address this scourge, which affects least-developed countries in particular, effective and consistent measures need to be undertaken within the context of the United Nations Decade for the Eradication of Poverty. The issue of external indebtedness continues to frustrate the ability of the least-developed countries to promote economic and social development. It is therefore incumbent upon the international community to address and find a solution to this problem as a matter of urgency. One year after the conclusion of the mid-term review of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, we need to take stock and review progress to see if the requisite resource mobilization levels are anywhere near being met and whether the central development goals are in place. As with the mid-term review of the New Agenda, this would enable the international community to take urgent and practical action on behalf of the African continent to eradicate poverty and underdevelopment. We in southern Africa, as a region whose potential for development was hamstrung by the repressive policies of apartheid, cannot but seek the promotion of our people through cooperation. It follows therefore that we should be committed to the transformation of our Southern African Development Community into an institution which provides a framework for the promotion of the imperatives of reconstruction and development. This would enhance the degree to which, individually and collectively, the region offers a basis to ensure a better life for all our peoples. The global partnership for sustainable development will be enhanced through the transfer of essential and environmentally sound technologies to developing States on preferential and concessional terms. The financial resources and mechanisms necessary for the implementation of Agenda 21 are still inadequate. Developed countries should honour their commitment to raise official development assistance flows to the United Nations target of 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product. Those few countries which have achieved this objective are commended. We encourage the promotion and sustainable management of the global environment to ensure a higher quality of life for all. The objective of sustainable development should be the integration of environmental, economic and social policies in order to meet basic human needs and to manage the environment on a sustainable basis. The disappointing lack of consensus at the special session of the General Assembly on the environment held in June 1997 leaves considerable follow-up action to be undertaken in order to accelerate the implementation of Agenda 21. In this respect, the role and importance of the United Nations Environment Programme as one of the leading United Nations bodies in the field of the environment should be strengthened. We commend the decision to convene a special session on drugs to deal effectively with the illicit production, sale, demand, trafficking and distribution of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. The special session will offer Member States an opportunity to join their efforts to combat drug abuse and illicit trafficking. South Africa strongly favours the early establishment of a permanent, independent and effective international criminal court. An opportunity now exists to establish the court before the turn of the century. We must therefore redouble our efforts during the forthcoming sessions of the Preparatory Committee to ensure that the diplomatic conference in Rome can complete its work successfully. It is imperative that all Member States continue fully to support the international criminal tribunals for Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia. To this end, my Government, in collaboration with the Parliamentarians for Global Action, recently hosted an international workshop on securing State cooperation and compliance with the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda. Its purpose was to review cooperation with the Rwanda Tribunal and encourage the enactment of domestic legislation by Member States, thus ensuring that those accused of acts of genocide are swiftly brought to trial. My Government welcomes efforts to elaborate a draft convention to define terrorism. It is our belief that acts of terrorism must be clearly distinguished from national liberation struggles in pursuit of the right to self- determination by peoples subjected to foreign or colonial domination. 16 I should like to take this opportunity to announce to the Assembly that on 20 August 1997, the South African Cabinet approved ratification of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. South Africa, a country with considerable maritime interests, will, for its part, continue to play a meaningful and constructive role in the governance of the world’s oceans. The continuing financial crisis of the Organization is of great concern to my delegation. We fully support the Secretary-General’s commitment to ending the long and persistent near-bankruptcy of the Organization. It behoves Member States to discharge their Charter obligation by paying their contributions in full, on time and without conditions. The lofty ideals that brought us together should continue to serve as an inspiration for us to strengthen the authority and capacity of the United Nations as we move into the next millennium. Eight weeks ago, the people of Solomon Islands elected a new Parliament that brought to office the “Alliance for Change”, a reform- oriented Government committed to revitalizing the nation and its economy. Programmes to fulfil the public’s desire for sustainable development are being designed and implemented with professionalism, transparency, accountability and due respect for traditional values. The demand for change is being heard in the villages and towns of Solomon Islands, as it is elsewhere. Change for the better, however, is not easily achieved. It requires people with vision and the judgment and courage to inspire productive action. The United Nations and the General Assembly are blessed with such people. Secretary-General Kofi Annan, in less than 10 months in office, has demonstrated insight and a refreshing openness that is felt throughout the Organization. His proposals to create a more effective and efficient United Nations are having a significant impact on our efforts here. The Solomon Islands delegation will work to achieve the consensus his programme for reform needs. Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, brings to the presidency of the General Assembly more than a decade of experience at the United Nations and participation in the historic political and economic transformation of his country. In this time of change at the United Nations, his diplomatic skills will prove indispensable. As President of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly, Malaysia’s Ambassador Razali Ismail provided enthusiastic leadership and challenging proposals that helped advance the reform process. We thank him. Solomon Islands gratefully recognizes the debt owed to the people of the Secretariat, the specialized agencies, the assistance programmes, the humanitarian and peacekeeping operations of the Organization and allies such as the International Committee of the Red Cross. Often working under difficult and even dangerous conditions, these men and women are heroes of our time. They will continue to have our full support. The extraordinary and rapid changes with which this century is ending understandably fuel uncertainty and fear of the future as we participate in the transformation of the world through international communications, commerce and law, as well as medicine, science and technology. Even humankind’s successful venture into outer space draws doubters and critics alike. During the last years of the nineteenth century, rapid scientific and technological innovation, armed conflict and the migration of vast numbers of people generated uncertainty and the fear of civilization’s decline among the influential circles of Europe. Intellectuals wrote about the ongoing degeneration of humankind and envisioned cataclysmic wars. In the twentieth century brutal local and global conflicts, the development and use of the cruellest weapons, the attempted extermination of entire peoples and a seemingly endless cold war gave credibility to the nightmare visions of that earlier generation. We are now engaged in the difficult process of understanding and transforming this legacy of horror into something we can use for humankind’s benefit. In this effort the United Nations is vital. Solomon Islands welcomes the adoption of the Agenda for Development and looks forward to the conclusion of the discussion of the scale of assessments and the issue of the capacity to pay. For the small developing States, an effective and financially stable United Nations that meets the challenges of development, as well as of the Organization’s other core activities, remains critical. The Solomon Islands Government supports the Secretary-General’s programme of reform. We have no illusions, however, that it will be easy for the Member States to reach a consensus on its adoption. Certain controversial proposals face intense debate, but we are confident that the outcome of our deliberations will benefit all. These discussions should take place in only one forum so that small delegations such as my own can fully participate. In an ideal United Nations, the future design of the Security Council could be characterized as “equality of membership, yes; the veto, no”. Political reality, however, requires another approach. The Security Council should be expanded, with permanent and non-permanent seats for developed and developing States. Solomon Islands will give serious consideration to permanent membership for Germany, Japan and several developing countries. Since the present permanent members insist on retaining the veto, it must be restricted to questions relating to Chapter VII of the Charter. Solomon Islands and other States in the great continent of Oceania are especially sensitive to environmental change. Our commitment to the principles of the Rio Declaration and the objectives of Agenda 21 is reflected in Solomon Islands’ ratification of the Convention on Biological Diversity and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. We vigorously support the Alliance of Small Island States draft protocol to the Framework Convention, and we will continue in the joint effort towards the achievement of a legally binding instrument to be negotiated in Kyoto this December. We are moving quickly to enact legislation 15 that will enable Solomon Islands to meet its obligations under the Climate Change Convention. Solomon Islands, which has ratified the Convention on the Law of the Sea, is committed to the adoption of a seabed mining code with strong provisions for protecting the marine environment. In 1998 we will actively participate in the International Year of the Ocean. We are committed to the international nuclear non- proliferation regime. Of special concern to us is the transport, dumping or storage of radioactive and other dangerous wastes in the Pacific region. Solomon Islands has signed the Waigani Convention to Ban the Importation into Forum Island Countries of Hazardous and Radioactive Wastes and the Nouméa Convention to protect the region’s marine and terrestrial environments. For these and similar treaties, it is important that relevant international standards be met by the responsible parties. Solomon Islands, which has ratified the Treaty of Rarotonga, continues to support the creation of a nuclear- weapon-free southern hemisphere, as well as similar zones elsewhere. We worked closely with Marshall Islands and Western Samoa in arguing before the International Court of Justice that the use of any nuclear weapon would violate international and humanitarian law. Our position was largely upheld by the landmark advisory opinion the Court handed down last year. We were pleased to co-sponsor General Assembly resolution 51/45 M in support of the International Court of Justice opinion. Solomon Islands continues its call for the creation of a forum of non- nuclear-weapon States. The forum, committed to the elimination of all nuclear weapons, and in keeping with the Court’s advisory opinion, would seek agreement on a unified approach to the full implementation of Article VI of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and would monitor progress towards that goal. Solomon Islands, which has closely followed the Ottawa process, will enthusiastically sign the treaty banning anti-personnel landmines. We thank Canada for this initiative. Recognition must also be given to the International Committee of the Red Cross and several non- governmental organizations for their efforts. A deadly legacy of the Second World War continues to haunt the Solomon Islands. Over 100 ships laden with fuel and unexploded munitions rest on the bottom of our channels and on land. A large number of unexploded bombs still litter our shores. The leaking fuel contaminates fish breeding grounds and affects the aquatic food chain. Estimates of the costs of clearance run to $1 billion or more, but a thorough technical and financial assessment of the problem is required. Those countries that waged war in the Solomon Islands have a responsibility to assist us. Recognizing the need to restructure the Solomon Islands economy, my Government is closely reviewing several key areas, such as public expenditure, banking and the taxation regime. We will seek assistance from the international lending agencies and the developed countries. To meet the demands of globalization, we are undertaking the expansion of investment and trade. With 80 per cent of its population of under 400,000 living in rural settings on hundreds of islands dispersed over 1,600 kilometres of ocean, Solomon Islands is using a village-centred development strategy that is democratic in origin and operation and sensitive to the cultural values of an ethnically and linguistically diverse people. My Government is placing increased emphasis on education and recreation for women and youth, who comprise three quarters of our population. Formal as well as informal programmes are being used to foster the study of agriculture, biology and other sciences, health care, appropriate technologies and the humanities. We are committed to upgrading the Solomon Islands College of Higher Education and transforming it into our National University. The Government is also focusing on programmes to increase agricultural productivity through research and better land use. We are pursuing policies to promote livestock development and aquaculture. Fishing remains a vital industry for us, and Solomon Islands has ratified the Agreement on the Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks. Over half of my Government’s revenue comes from forest harvesting. Our ultimate goal is sustainable forestry. Reforestation and the conservation of our preserves are now essential elements of our environmental policy. Seeking to maximize the economic return to Solomon Islanders, we are reviewing the process of granting licences and considering the establishment of facilities for lumber processing entirely within our country. Sustainable development in the Solomon Islands requires electrification, especially by means of solar and hydro energy. Whether to enhance rural life or to open new industries, electrification is essential. My 16 Government is giving energy resource development high priority. Embracing the purposes and principles of the Charter, Solomon Islands has on several occasions at the United Nations called upon the Republic of China on Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China to take the necessary steps towards opening negotiations to achieve reunification. The Government of the Republic of China is committed to the peaceful and equitable reunification of China. Peaceful reunification is also the stated goal of the People’s Republic of China. Both parties have offered strikingly similar proposals. Yet there has been no decisive movement towards negotiation. Delay makes them ever harder to initiate, increases tension across the Taiwan Strait and threatens international peace and security. Responsibility for peaceful reunification rests with the two parties and the international community. Bringing about and successfully completing negotiations will be a long and difficult process that would be greatly assisted by the participation of the Republic of China in the United Nations. The Republic of China, which is fully committed to the purposes and principles of the Charter, has the means to be an active contributor to the Organization’s work. Regrettably, threats have been made and actions taken against Solomon Islands and other Member States that have spoken on behalf of the Republic of China. Even the use of force against us has been threatened, in violation of the Charter’s principles and the letter and spirit of numerous General Assembly resolutions. Threats have no place at the United Nations. Finally, as we enter the twenty-first century, a more effective Organization requires the participation and dedication of all sectors of civil society. Let us renew our pledge to cooperate with the United Nations. It is time to join hands in shaping the present for the benefit of future generations.  ﻿At the outset I would like to offer my sincere congratulations upon Mr. Udovenko’s election to the honourable post of President of the United Nations General Assembly at its fifty-second session. The Polish delegation expresses its satisfaction that the presidency of this session has been entrusted to an eminent statesman from Ukraine, a country with which we have ties of friendship and cooperation based on common values and aspirations. The President may count on my delegation’s full cooperation in the performance of his important tasks. Please also allow me to extend expressions of appreciation and respect to Mr. Razali Ismail, a prominent representative of Malaysia, for his excellent guidance of the work of the General Assembly during its fifty-first session. I would also like to address words of the deepest respect to Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General, for the outstanding manner in which he has demonstrated his qualities of leadership and good judgement. Seven years since the downfall of a polarized world and less than three years away from the year 2000, we are already living in a new era. Are we, the citizens of the Earth, aware of the momentous changes and the new responsibilities which they entail? When looking at ourselves from the perspective of the Pathfinder on Mars, or of the space station Mir, do we see humanity in its entirety or, rather, spasmodic movements of an anthill, always prepared to fight over every scrap, devoid of the gift of synthesis and without ability to perceive the whole? These are the questions which all of us, especially here in this Hall, are confronted with. The burden of responsibility of the United Nations for resisting dangers and facing challenges, for eliminating tensions and constantly building foundations for the future, has not been relieved. It has not diminished. Perhaps it weighs even heavier today than ever before. From that moment in 1945, in San Francisco, when Arthur Rubinstein, an outstanding piano virtuoso and a great Polish patriot, proudly inaugurated the United Nations era with the notes of the Polish national anthem, until today, our Organization has given the impression of being oriented towards emergency actions rather than systematic and comprehensive work programmes. The General Assembly and the Security Council are excessively preoccupied with current issues. Nonetheless, torn apart by the global confrontation between the free world and totalitarianism, they attempted to find mechanisms of dialogue and negotiation that would protect the world from global conflict. They have fulfilled that role. No one, neither the fiercest opponents of the idea of the United Nations nor the greatest promoters of its radical modernization, can deny the United Nations achievements in maintaining world peace and security and resolving local conflicts. One has to bow to the visionary skills and political genius of the creators of the Atlantic Charter, which provided the foundation for our Organization. Their work has stood the test of time in circumstances unforeseeable when the system was established. Until now we have been concentrating on avoiding war. Shocked by the tragedy of the Second World War and the experience of ravages of previous wars, we have 14 put all our energy into the creed “Never again”. However, concentrating on avoiding war, the United Nations has not always been able to pay sufficient attention to building a world for people, a world of harmonious existence and balanced development. I should like to emphasize this point again and again. The time has come to pay more attention to building a world for all people, of all races, all religions and all cultures, for people in the wealthier North and the poorer South. An important area of international cooperation has been the effort to eliminate weapons of mass destruction: nuclear, chemical and biological. This Organization has made a significant contribution to this activity. Among the recent milestones in this domain, I should mention the enactment of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction, as well as the signing of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. We also consider extremely important the ongoing work towards wider application and universalization of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, the basis for a global regime of nuclear-arms non-proliferation. We attach particular significance to the willingness of the United States and the Russian Federation, as confirmed at the Helsinki summit this year, to continue the START negotiations, taking them to a qualitatively new stage involving the radical reduction of nuclear arsenals. We trust that the ratification of START II by the Russian Federation, upon which these negotiations are conditioned, will soon be a fact, just as we hope that our expectations with regard to the immediate ratification by Russia of the Chemical Weapons Convention will become a reality in the near future. We welcome President Clinton’s decision to submit to the Senate for ratification the Comprehensive Nuclear- Test-Ban Treaty, as he announced from this rostrum. Both for humanitarian reasons and for reasons of our country’s security interests, we attach great importance to effective actions aimed at limiting or banning conventional weapons, including anti-personnel landmines. We welcome the momentous arrangements concerning this issue that were agreed at the recent Oslo Diplomatic Conference. We believe, however, that the consolidation and universalization of these agreements should continue to be sought persistently at the Geneva Conference on Disarmament. This would guarantee participation in the negotiations of the main manufacturers and exporters, which in turn would serve to take better into account the legitimate security interests of all countries. In this context of conventional disarmament, allow me to confess that it was with immense sadness that my delegation — just like everyone else in the world — received the news of the tragic death of Diana, Princess of Wales, a great supporter of a ban on landmines. We are currently starting a new and different stage in the history of the United Nations. The moment has come to pose truly fundamental questions about the future and to provide answers. Global peace is a primary value, but should we not reach beyond that? In our view, global peace is a fundamental precondition to the preservation of human dignity and the observance of human rights, to the enhancement of economic and political justice and to harmonious and sustainable development. But the time has come for the United Nations to open up more so as to meet other challenges of contemporary civilization. United Nations agencies have already made progress in this direction. The experience they have accumulated, as well as their lasting achievements in the definite improvement of living conditions for millions of people, constitute an important starting point. In this respect, sufficient funding aimed at specific programmes is the prerequisite for success. We welcome donations and philanthropy, which are an important source of additional funding and a clear sign of public support. However, the United Nations needs a solid foundation for its activities, and regular contributions by all Members are indispensable. The reforms proposed by the Secretary-General in his report, “Renewing the United Nations: A Programme for Reform”, provide the basis for fundamental changes in the activities of our Organization that will allow it to serve better the needs and expectations of all the Member nations facing the challenges of the twenty-first century. It is with hope and optimism that we welcome the initiatives of the Secretary-General. We believe they will lead to improved effectiveness and better management of the United Nations system. They increase the focus on development programmes and enhance the credibility of the Organization. They strengthen the relationship between Member States and the United Nations. Poland supports the proposed direction of the United Nations reforms. We are prepared to cooperate actively in this process, and we are vitally interested in further efforts to reinvigorate the United Nations system, including its economic and social sectors. 15 There is no immediate threat of a global conflict, but local conflicts might often lead to conflicts on a much greater scale. The world was not free of regional or even internal conflicts before, but either their importance and ramifications seemed less significant in the face of a threat of worldwide conflict, or they were temporarily frozen by the cold war. With the ice melting, local conflicts ignited with renewed intensity. The international community, fully aware of the threat they presented, made efforts to assist in defusing them, with varying degree of success. Understandably, the United Nations had a perception of its responsibility and took action using the means at the disposal of the Security Council. Poland supports all the efforts to institute the concept of rapid deployment in order to improve the capability of the United Nations to respond quickly to crisis situations. Our experience proves that the ability to address local conflicts should be one of the priorities in our efforts to reform the Security Council. The basic premise for balanced enlargement and reform of the Council should be the increased effectiveness of its work in an international environment which is undergoing fundamental changes. With our experience of nearly two years of participation in the Security Council, we are inclined to conclude that the effectiveness of Security Council activities is greatly enhanced when it enjoys the full support of the respective regions represented in the United Nations. Therefore, we support the aspirations of various regional groups to additional seats in the Council if its membership is expanded. At the same time, Poland would find it necessary to increase the representation of Central and Eastern Europe in the Council by an additional member. Thus, my Government is in favour of the accession of Japan and Germany to permanent seats. Poland is among the countries convinced of the necessity of reforming the Council to adapt it to current and future tasks. While implementing these reforms, we should take into consideration two parallel and sometimes conflicting tendencies: globalization and regionalization. The emerging concept of regional responsibility should undergo consolidation. Its burden is being carried by regional organizations engaged in resolving regional conflicts, prominent cases in point being the activities of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) in Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as those of the Organization of African Unity. We believe that regional organizations should be more engaged in preventive diplomacy and maintaining peace while ensuring full compatibility with the United Nations Charter. Thus, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) is contributing to the fulfillment of the basic task of the United Nations — maintaining international peace and security — through active regional cooperation in both conflict prevention and crisis management, as well as in post-conflict rehabilitation. When Poland assumes the duties of OSCE Chairman-in-Office in 1998, it will make every effort to maintain and develop further a high standard of cooperation between that Organization and the United Nations. In an atmosphere of global peace there is a much better chance to stand up to conflicts as old as humanity, such as religious conflicts, those between rich and poor and those between various ethnic groups. The Polish people, with its historical experience of times of freedom and times of bondage, is gaining new experience today. As the pioneer of the 1990s breakthrough, which led to the end of a polarized world, today Poland is experiencing both joy and hardship: the joy of returning to the family of free nations and the hardship of a transformation period and the restructuring of our economy. This year Poland has been undergoing a bitter test, fighting against a natural disaster unparalleled in centuries: the catastrophic flood in the south and west of the country. May I take this opportunity to extend our heartfelt thanks to the countries, organizations and persons of goodwill that have come to our assistance. If there is any lesson to be drawn from this horrible experience, it is that massive natural disasters are a kind of danger that we all have to learn to withstand together. This year’s flood, whose destructive force struck our country, also had a disastrous effect on our neighbors, in particular the Czech Republic and Germany. We found that such disasters can be faced much more effectively if the preventive and rescue operations are organized on an international and, especially, a transboundary scale. There is an old saying that a friend in need is a friend indeed. But one can also find friends in moments of success and moments of joy. Thanks to the help of our friends, and to their satisfaction, Poland crossed two great thresholds this year. It was invited to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and to the European Union. Negotiations with NATO are already under way, and those with the European Union will commence at the 16 beginning of next year. Our readiness to shoulder responsibility and our ability to meet the requirements have been recognized. Poland is now considered a reliable and respected member of the community of democratic nations. The outcome of our recently held parliamentary elections has confirmed that this basic orientation of our foreign policy will remain unchanged and is supported by the overwhelming majority of the Polish people. The world is still imperfect. Millions of people are paying — with their freedom, their dignity and sometimes even their lives — the price of lack of democracy and lack of respect for human rights. There are forces that feed on ethnic antagonisms. Poverty is the fate of millions of people across vast territories. But other problems on a global scale are also visible — climate changes and diverse environmental concerns, the constantly widening gap between rich and poor and the insufficient reach of education and health care. The reforms which we undertake should increase the United Nations capability to address these important issues. Let me now elaborate on some of them. Through deep and carefully thought-out reform, we should equip the United Nations with mechanisms capable of ensuring respect for the human rights of all the world’s citizens to a greater degree than before. The United Nations evolution and reform introduce the human rights issue in quite a natural way to the Security Council agenda. We welcome this trend. There is a clear connection between international security and respect for human rights, which should be reflected in the activities of the Security Council. The events of the past few years in Africa have again dramatically confirmed the existence of such a relationship. 1998 will be a special year for human rights. Half a century ago the General Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, a catalogue of the individual’s rights and duties. However, the concept of human rights still varies from region to region. I think that on the threshold of the twenty-first century, as we emphasized in Warsaw this January when inaugurating the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, it is worth considering how to use this variety to build a universal concept of human rights, just as the Declaration initially assumed. At the same time, however, we oppose any attempt at the so-called revision of the Universal Declaration, which must remain a common minimal standard for all humanity. As a member of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights starting on 1 January 1998, Poland confirms its willingness to continue the dialogue and cooperation with representatives of all regional groups. Observance and promotion of human rights are for all of us a great challenge at the threshold of the twenty-first century. We also believe that closer economic cooperation with developing countries will help them overcome difficulties and actively participate in the world economy. Poland is undertaking and will continue to undertake important projects in this field. We also want to point out the important role of international institutions in providing development assistance for partners with lower levels of income. We will continue to give them our support as their tasks require and our capacity allows. A year ago, in this General Assembly Hall, the President of Poland, Mr. Aleksander Kwasniewski, formulated a proposal for the elaboration of an international convention against organized transnational crime. We were encouraged by the massive support that the Polish initiative received from the membership of this Organization. We think that the international community should take active measures to stop the spreading cancer of transnational crime. We must secure the effective cooperation of countries and organizations concerned. We believe that the United Nations will find for itself a creative and constructive role through the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, which has been entrusted with the task of elaborating this convention. Poland is ready to cooperate with other countries to extend the scope and range of the convention if such extension would meet the needs and expectations of Member States. We appreciate the work of the Commission on this subject and hope that the Assembly will receive a final draft of the convention at its next session. Equally important are the environmental issues. The most important among them are those related to climate changes. To deal effectively with such problems as the greenhouse effect, melting of glaciers and the protection of tropical forests is a task far exceeding the ability of any single country or even region. It is hard to imagine effective action in this area unless we all join forces. It is justifiable to reconsider whether the United Nations is an organization capable of dealing with these tasks. The doubts voiced by the skeptics should not be 17 ignored. However, Poland is among the countries that believe that the United Nations system can, through the collective effort of its Members, meet the challenges. This effort has to be directed towards, among other things, understanding current and future dilemmas which reach beyond this century. It must be sustained with a vision, shared by all Members of the system, of the shape they wish to give to tomorrow. It must involve the will to develop an organizational system and make it effective, with each Member bearing its share of responsibility. Today’s Poland — democratic, economically successful, enjoying good relations with all its neighbours, binding itself to alliances with the European Union and NATO — is ready to participate in carrying out this task. We must rise to the expectations of the United Nations. As one of the Organization’s founding Members, Poland will not cease in its support of the United Nations as a global forum for resolving problems and conflicts, and especially for ensuring a just and effective system of global governance aimed at eliminating threats to humanity. Poland stands ready to do its part for the purpose of achieving these lofty goals.   ﻿It affords me great pleasure and honour to convey to you, Mr. President, on behalf of my delegation, as well as on my own behalf, our heartiest congratulations on your unanimous election. It is a fitting tribute not only to your outstanding diplomatic skills and long involvement with the United Nations, but also to your country, with which we enjoy friendly relations. To your predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia, I should like to express our sincere appreciation for the remarkable job that he did. His was an extraordinarily proactive presidency. Indeed, he has given new stature to the office of President of the General Assembly. This is the first regular session of the General Assembly for our Secretary-General Kofi Annan since his appointment to that high office. In the discharge of his very onerous responsibilities he brings to bear unmatched expertise with regard to the United Nations system. Indeed, he is the archetypical insider of that system. His appointment to the highest Secretariat position is recognition of his manifest competence. The priority that he has attached to the task of making the United Nations system more streamlined and attuned to present-day realities and requirements is indeed commendable. While on the subject of reform, let me say that my delegation lends its full support to the initiative of the Secretary-General in submitting his reform proposal, which the Assembly will be examining later in the course of its business. There is no denying that the proposal is timely and that it has been put forward to make the United Nations more efficient and effective. We expect that the reform process will preserve and promote the centrality and sanctity of the principles and objectives of the United Nations Charter. My delegation also wants the process of reform to be carried out with the primary objective of strengthening the capacity of the Organization to address issues of development. Bangladesh would favour negotiating the reform package in informal plenary meetings with the full participation of all countries. The United Nations Charter is of enduring validity. By definition, reform has to be a dynamic and periodic process as times, problems and priorities change. My delegation would fully support any endeavour to improve the administration and management of the United Nations. Member States have the right and even the duty to insist that optimal use be made of the resources that they have entrusted to the Organization for the promotion of the Charter objectives. Bangladesh assures its unstinted cooperation and support to eliminate duplication and overlap and to effect better coordination and prioritization. However, reform cannot be an acceptable surrogate for political will, and those two aspects must be mutually supportive and reinforcing. In the context of the reform exercise, Bangladesh would like to stress that the exclusively international character of the responsibilities of the Secretary-General and his staff should in no way be compromised. According to Article 101 of the Charter, the highest standards of efficiency, competence and integrity should be the basic determinants in making appointments to the Secretariat, with due regard to geographical distribution. We therefore welcome the Secretary General’s proposal to submit a code of conduct for international civil servants. No endeavour at United Nations reform will be successful without the necessary financial resources. The continuation of the current financial crisis of the United Nations has seriously impaired the functioning of the Organization. For a financially sick United Nations, the much needed shot in the arm can come only from the full and unconditional payment of outstanding contributions by those Member States that have not yet done so. The cold-war era of adversarial alliances, power blocs and ideological divides is happily a thing of the past. However, another war, one in which the United 4 Nations will have to be in the vanguard, remains to be fought and won before a meaningful peace and international security can be achieved. That is the war against poverty, ignorance and prejudice. Peace does not simply happen or come about fortuitously. It must be sedulously built and nurtured and underpinned by a host of interrelated actions that are inextricably linked to development and human security. A culture of peace is essential to make it sustainable and all embracing. Over the years, the concept of security has evolved, as has the concept of development. The United Nations can be, as the President of the General Assembly put it last year, the main development catalyst, one that can strongly influence coordination at the macro level with other bodies that have more access to resources but that are less democratically set up. We have been discussing for the past few years the question of Security Council expansion and reform. There is a clear logic and rationale for an expansion of the overall size of the Council to make it more representative in character. On this aspect of the question a general consensus seems to have emerged, although there exist differences as to the exact size of any new Council. Where a convergence of view — let alone consensus — continues to elude us is on the question of the expansion of the number of permanent seats. Bangladesh’s concern, which we have already articulated, is that, in any enlargement exercise, the concerns of the smaller and more vulnerable States that have the most vital stake in an effective and dynamic United Nations should not be lost sight of. In the decade of the 1990s we have had a series of high-profile global conferences. These mega-conferences have addressed some of the major challenges that are confronting us today and, with the United Nations playing a central role, reached important political consensus. Those gatherings underscored in particular the primacy of human development in achieving sustained and sustainable development. The Agenda for Development adopted in June this year is in a sense the culmination of this series, representing a synthesis of the plans and programmes of action that had been adopted. The Agenda is the result of tortuous and painstaking negotiations carried out over a period of four years. It is a matter of gratification to have achieved a development consensus that was so badly needed and clearly warranted. It is, of course, most vital that, along with the Agenda for Development, follow-up and implementation should match the outcome of these conferences. Bangladesh believes that without the full involvement of civil society this process will remain incomplete. Recognizing the key role of civil society in promoting global partnership, we welcome the Secretary- General’s proposal for a people’s millennium Assembly in the year 2000. It is now widely accepted that free enterprise, the market economy, international trade and competition, as well as broad-based public participation in economic expansion, are the keys to economic growth and human development. To this mix must be added the components of democracy, good governance and the rule of law. This, however, in no way diminishes, particularly in the case of the least developed countries, the imperative of a supportive external environment. Improved access to world markets, greater inflow of foreign private investment, transfer of technology and managerial know- how and larger external assistance all have very important roles to play in ensuring development. Economic liberalization should invariably be combined, in our view, with adequate social safety nets to safeguard the most vulnerable segments of society. It is a matter of some concern to us that global official development assistance flows continue to slump. We sincerely hope, though, that this trend will be reversed. The development of the South is not only an investment in peace and security, but would clearly also rebound to the advantage of the countries of the North in the long and not so long run, since this would mean bigger markets for their exports, with all their concomitant benefits. Development has been most aptly described as a partnership. The plight of the least developed countries, in particular, calls for very careful consideration and has in the past merited a special place and focus in the international agenda. Two major international conferences on the least developed countries have been held in the 1980s and 1990s and important decisions and programmes of action adopted. The implementation of these, however, has been disappointing. We hope that the third United Nations Conference on the least developed countries can be held in the year 2000 to chart the course of global support for these weakest members at the start of next millennium. 5 We would urge special consideration and concessions for the least developed countries in order to enable them to meet World Trade Organization deadlines. Indeed, if the situation so warrants, deadlines may even be made flexible for that group of countries. We would also urge that, at the forthcoming high-level meeting in Geneva next month, all major issues of concern to the least developed countries, including duty-free access of their products to foreign markets, be given most favourable consideration. The end of cold war perhaps naturally raised our hopes for a new and exciting world order in which nations would share the responsibility for freedom and justice and the strong would respect the rights of the weak — a world of open borders, open trade and open minds. Such a vision can and should surely be our goal and inspiration. To achieve it, in particular at the regional level, cooperation in carefully identified core areas of activity, including trade and investment, is a valuable tool of development. In our own region, through the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC), we are striving to accelerate progress in core areas of cooperation, such as poverty eradication, expansion of regional trade and investment. We have also, within the ambit of SAARC, launched a “growth quadrangle” involving four member States — Bangladesh, India, Nepal and Bhutan — in order to explore areas of joint economic activity and take advantage of the factor of contiguity. Moreover, outside of SAARC, Bangladesh has entered the Bangladesh-India-Sri Lanka-Thailand Economic Cooperation (BIST-EC) in order to boost cooperation in the economic and commercial fields among its four member countries. A consensus decision has now been taken to allow Myanmar to join this subregional group as a full member. Last year, while addressing the General Assembly, I referred to the negotiations that were being held with India on sharing the waters of the Ganges River. This had proved to be an intractable problem for over two decades and it is a matter of great satisfaction to us all that, in December last year, we signed a 30-year treaty at the highest political level with India on sharing arrangements. The signing of this treaty, within months of the present Government’s assumption of office, demonstrated that, given goodwill and political will, the most difficult problems can be resolved. At the national level, we are affording every facility and cooperation to our private sector and providing liberal incentives to foreign entrepreneurs to invest in our country. The Government’s role will be to oversee and to provide safety nets where necessary. The Government is making every effort to combat the blighting scourges of widespread poverty and deprivation, so that we may realize the dream — to which the Father of the Nation, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, dedicated his entire political career and life — of a country free, progressive and prosperous, at peace with the world and with itself. Ours has also been a pioneering role in the field of microcredit. Initiated by the Grameen Bank and considered a most innovative approach to the eradication of poverty and empowerment of women, it has been recognized and emulated in a good number of developing and developed countries. The Microcredit Summit held in Washington earlier this year was a success: a target was set there to free 100 million families from the stranglehold of poverty by the year 2005. At the United Nations, the “Friends of Microcredit” ambassadors have taken the initiative to follow up the implementation process throughout the United Nations system. In Bangladesh, we have accorded priority to and placed special emphasis on social sector development in such areas as health care, education, family planning, women in development and the preservation and promotion of human rights. The initiatives and efforts of our Prime Minister in this regard have been widely appreciated. I would particularly mention here that the Government, under the dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, the illustrious daughter of the Father of the Nation, has announced the decision to set up a National Human Rights Commission. Our Parliament is expected to pass the required legislative mandate for this Commission next year. We are also working towards the establishment of grameen, or rural, courts, which will take justice to the people at the grass-roots level. This concept of participatory justice is still a novel one. Its purpose is to ensure speedy, effective and inexpensive justice to the humblest of citizens. While on the subject of human rights, I should like to express our pleasure that an individual of the eminence and distinction of Mrs. Mary Robinson has been appointed United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. We would like to assure her of the wholehearted cooperation of our Government. We look forward to working with her in close concert in the promotion of human rights, a goal that all of us share and cherish, with special focus on the right to development and the rights of women and children. 6 The Constitution of Bangladesh specifically provides for our international relations to be based, inter alia, on the principles of the United Nations Charter. It is thus for us a matter of singular pride and gratification that Bangladesh should be playing such an active role in United Nations peacekeeping operations. This is a role that we consider to be a solemn duty and an earnest of our commitment to the United Nations and the principles and purposes of the Charter. We still have a long way to go in the area of disarmament, particularly nuclear disarmament. The entry into force of the Chemical Weapons Convention is a major step forward. It is a truism that our world is becoming increasingly interdependent. The uncomfortable fact remains, though, that it is still a far more dangerous place than that it should be. West Asia, the Palestinian issue, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Afghanistan and the Great Lakes region all present problems that impinge on international peace and security. The United Nations, of course, is playing a pivotal role in seeking peaceful and equitable resolutions of these problems. We sincerely hope that the peace process in the Middle East will move forward and that the years of negotiations, investment and effort will bear fruit. Our views on this particular issue are well known. Relevant Security Council resolutions exist, as do agreements negotiated outside the ambit of the United Nations, on the basis of which a meaningful peace can be achieved in the Middle East and the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people, including the right to an independent homeland, restored. As we approach the next century, it will have to be our collective endeavour to strengthen and to reinforce institutions at the global level that can effectively address the problems of the post-cold-war world. The United Nations in essence represents the entire human race in microcosm, with its wisdom and follies, its successes and shortcomings. It is an experiment, as was once said, in living together as a single human family. To be sure, the United Nations is an Organization of Governments — the apex of intergovernmental organs. And yet it is also true that its foundations rest on the yearnings of the peoples of the world for a lasting peace. The opening words of the Charter read: “We the peoples of the United Nations determined to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war”. The peoples and nations of the world will have to work in concert if stability, prosperity and a meaningful peace are to be achieved on a global scale. Bangladesh, of course, will be at the forefront of this endeavour.  ﻿On behalf of the Government and people of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, I have the distinct pleasure and honour to extend sincere congratulations to you, Sir, and to the Government of Ukraine on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at this fifty-second session. I am confident that, under your able leadership, the urgent and important issues which face the General Assembly at this critical time in the history of the United Nations will be advanced. I would also like to express my profound appreciation to your predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia, for his excellent stewardship over the last session. His inimitable and dynamic style has left a distinctive mark on the modus operandi of the General Assembly. Ambassador Ismail deserves our commendation for his efforts to advance the work of the General Assembly on issues such as the reform of the Security Council, the Agenda for Development and the nineteenth special session of the General Assembly to review and appraise the implementation of Agenda 21. Trinidad and Tobago remains committed to the principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. Today, as we approach the twenty-first century and a new range of issues demands our attention as nation States, our commitment to the United Nations is no less focused, no less poignant. Trinidad and Tobago continues to believe in the efficacy of the United Nations, a body now at a critical point in its evolution. We applaud Secretary- General Kofi Annan, who has presented perhaps the most extensive reform proposals in the history of the Organization. A restructured Organization will be better poised to respond more readily to the challenges of the next century. There is no doubt about the need of the international community for the United Nations. No other body remotely approximates its universality of membership and it remains the most appropriate forum for addressing the interrelated issues of peace, security and sustainable development. While the international community must address these perennial issues, we need at the same time to confront the daunting tasks of providing humanitarian 5 assistance and reconstructive aid and ensuring the promotion of good governance, democracy and human rights. In this post-cold-war period, the United Nations must strive to build an international community based on peace, justice, equity, democracy and the rule of international law. Trinidad and Tobago is concerned about the rise in political conflicts and tensions and the unresolved long- standing disputes which continue to threaten international peace and security. Increased efforts must be made by the international community to address these conflicts through peaceful means. Trinidad and Tobago wishes to restate its commitment to the non-use of force in the conduct of international relations and the peaceful settlement of disputes. We will continue to support United Nations-led peacekeeping missions and do our part to further democracy, as exemplified by our participation in the election processes in such countries as Haiti, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Namibia and South Africa. This General Assembly will address yet again the continuing quest for a just and lasting peace in the Middle East. At this delicate period in the peace process, Trinidad and Tobago believes that durable peace will be achieved only if all parties to the dispute adhere to the relevant United Nations resolutions and implement the agreements and guarantees to which they have committed themselves in bilateral and multilateral negotiations. We in the Caribbean region appreciate the support given by the international community to the Government and people of Haiti. This support has contributed to the progress made so far in the building of democracy and the strengthening of its institutions. We are convinced that the recent decision to extend the mandate of the United Nations Transition Mission in Haiti was necessary to consolidate gains already made. We must continue to provide material and other support to strengthen Haiti’s democracy and its economic development. These are necessary pillars for the establishment of durable peace and stability in that country. Trinidad and Tobago, as a member of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), pledges to continue to do its part in consolidating this process. It is in this context that we welcomed Haiti as the fifteenth member State of CARICOM at the meeting last July of the Heads of Government of CARICOM, which was held in Montego Bay in Jamaica. Trinidad and Tobago continues to participate in the efforts of the international community in this transition period, as evidenced by the fact that a Trinidad and Tobago national, Ambassador Colin Granderson, is the Executive Director of the Organization of American States/United Nations International Civilian Mission in Haiti. It will also be recalled that Trinidad and Tobago, as part of a hemispheric effort, participated in the military mission that restored the democratically elected President to Haiti and our efforts have continued at both the civilian and military levels after that objective was achieved. In the post-cold-war era, the world has witnessed an escalation in the abuse of human rights, including some cases of genocide and other heinous crimes against humanity. Trinidad and Tobago has always been concerned about such atrocities. Trinidad and Tobago is proud of the role it played in reintroducing on the international political and legal agenda the question of the establishment of a permanent international criminal court. The Government of my country is heartened by the increasing support for the establishment of the international criminal court and we welcome the substantial progress made thus far by the Preparatory Committee for its establishment. Trinidad and Tobago urges Member States to continue their constructive and active participation during the forthcoming sessions of the Preparatory Committee. We further urge wider involvement in the process so as to ensure the successful negotiation of a widely acceptable statute, which will be finalized at a conference of plenipotentiaries to be held in Rome in the summer of 1998. It is because of this concern for the promotion and protection of human rights and our absolute condemnation of acts of genocide and crimes against humanity that Trinidad and Tobago participated at the highest level through our President, Mr. Arthur N. R. Robinson, at a conference in Italy on reining in impunity for international crimes and serious violations of fundamental human rights. That conference addressed issues pertaining to the ongoing work of the Preparatory Committee and unanimous support was expressed for a permanent international criminal court to ensure that perpetrators of such crimes are brought to justice. Linked to the considerations of peace and security are the myriad socio-economic problems which continue to undermine the stability of our nations. In this regard, the international community has sought to respond by convening a series of world conferences to analyse the global situation and provide blueprints for action at the national, regional and international levels. 6 A continuing concern for the Government of Trinidad and Tobago remains the failure on the part of the international community to provide adequate resources for the accelerated implementation of the commitments made at these conferences. Any reform of the United Nations system aimed at delivering mandated programmes in a more efficient manner must therefore take this factor into account. The World Summit for Social Development, which was held in Copenhagen in 1995, highlighted the urgent need to eradicate poverty and to develop policies to promote social and economic equity. In October 1996, as a follow-up to the World Summit for Social Development, a Caribbean Ministerial Meeting on Poverty Eradication was held in Port-of-Spain, Trinidad and Tobago. The assembled Ministers developed a Plan of Action on poverty eradication, which is guiding Governments of the region in the elaboration of their own national plans. In this regard, the Government of Trinidad and Tobago has adopted and is vigilantly pursuing as one of its primary objectives a policy of sustained economic growth with equity, with special emphasis on poverty eradication. My Government recognizes the central role of education and its impact on the eradication of poverty and we have begun to reform the curriculum to give all children equal access to quality education as we strive continuously in Trinidad and Tobago towards achieving a “total quality nation”. Education, in itself, is central to the Government’s objective of producing a total quality nation, in which all our citizenry strives for excellence, is committed to the highest standards, is technologically equipped to deal with the realities of a knowledge-based work environment and is afforded opportunities for life-long learning. In addition, the Government of Trinidad and Tobago has established mechanisms for addressing the scourge of poverty and societal inequities through the following initiatives. First, we established a change-management unit for poverty eradication and equity-building, which reports to a Ministerial Council on Social Development. This Council was launched in October 1996, with the assistance of the Poverty Strategies Initiative of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The Government applauds UNDP’s support. Secondly, we set up a Committee on Social Displacement. The Committee’s terms of reference include the development of holistic plans to provide relief to all homeless and destitute persons. Thirdly, expenditure on several other social safety- net schemes has been significantly increased in order to deal with problems and issues affecting women, the elderly, children, adolescents, the disabled and the dispossessed. These measures have been recognized and indeed reflected by UNDP in its 1997 Human Development Report, which lists Trinidad and Tobago at the top of the human poverty index rankings. According to the Report, Trinidad and Tobago is among those countries which have reduced human poverty to a human poverty index value of less than 10 per cent. We must all continue to support efforts for the eradication of poverty in accordance with agreed programmes and plans of action. The assault on poverty, especially rural poverty, must take into account the special needs of women and their full integration in the development process. Trinidad and Tobago therefore welcomes the progress achieved by the United Nations in following up the Fourth World Conference on Women, held in Beijing in September 1995, which had as one of its primary objectives the need to accord high priority to gender issues. It welcomes as well the appointment of a high- level official as a special adviser to the Secretary-General on gender issues and the advancement of women. Social and economic problems transcend national boundaries and therefore require international solutions based on strengthened global partnerships to support action. When the Prime Minister of Trinidad and Tobago, The Honourable Basdeo Panday, addressed the fifty-first session of the United Nations General Assembly, he identified a number of social problems which pose a particular threat to the stability and integrity of small States. Among the problems he mentioned were drug abuse and drug trafficking and the associated problems of money laundering and trafficking in small arms, as well as terrorism and social disintegration. Trinidad and Tobago therefore welcomes the convening of the special session of the United Nations General Assembly on illicit drugs, to be held in New York in June 1998. This session should provide an appropriate opportunity for Governments to review progress made in implementing the Global Programme of 7 Action on drugs adopted in February 1990 and serve to intensify drug-control strategies and cooperation worldwide. The drug scourge and its attendant consequences require action at different levels. To that end, Caribbean Governments have decided to establish a criminal justice protection programme that would facilitate cooperation in the confidential protection of witnesses, jurors, judicial and law enforcement personnel and their families. If this programme is to be successfully implemented, additional training and technical assistance from the international community and agencies such as the United Nations International Drug Control Programme will be required. The United Nations has a critical role to play, but it is the responsibility — indeed, the duty — of every State to act aggressively in this regard. Conscious of its responsibility, the Government of Trinidad and Tobago has embarked upon initiatives to curb the illicit drug trade and eradicate the associated downstream activity of money laundering. These initiatives are in keeping with international conventions and declarations, such as the United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, the Commonwealth Scheme relating to Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters and the Inter-American Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters. Trinidad and Tobago has also entered into bilateral agreements with other countries to foster cooperation with regard to arresting the growth of transnational crimes associated with trafficking. Our Government has declared its commitment to eliminating the threats to the stability, security and safety of our society that emanate from the scourge of the illicit drug trade. Some of the measures taken include the following. The first measure is the signing of an agreement on maritime counter-drug operations with the United States of America. This bilateral mechanism has already proved to be very effective in dealing with the pernicious drug trade. The second measure is the extension of the Government’s powers of extradition and the negotiation of agreements with countries with which it does not now have extradition agreements. We are renegotiating existing agreements to make extradition procedures more effective. Trinidad and Tobago is also fulfilling its obligations under existing extradition treaties. The third measure is the serious implementation of money- laundering drug laws. The illicit gains of the drug trade and the resource base of drug criminals are being attacked. The property and profits of drug lords are being confiscated as a result of measures which have been introduced in my country. Also, a task force to counter narcotics and money laundering has been established and the Government is pursuing law reform in the area of bank secrecy. Another measure is that Trinidad and Tobago — with the cooperation of other CARICOM Governments, Canada, Britain and the United States of America — has created a witness protection programme. In addition, we are establishing the criminal justice protection programme to which I alluded earlier. Finally, we continue to seek bilateral and multilateral assistance in various forms, such as equipment, personnel, aircraft and maritime support in our relentless fight against illicit drugs. Earlier I referred to the efforts to reform this Organization. One of the key issues that will engage the attention of delegations at the fifty-second session is the question of the reform of the intergovernmental machinery. We are particularly interested in efforts at reform and reconstruction, especially as they relate to the development activities of the United Nations. We view with satisfaction the Secretary-General’s proposal, introduced last March, that the new structure of the Secretariat should serve to bolster support for Africa’s development, South-South cooperation and the sustainable development of small island States. Trinidad and Tobago welcomes the recent decision of the nineteenth special session of the General Assembly to hold a comprehensive review of the United Nations Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. That Conference, which was held in Barbados in 1994, was of historic significance, marking as it did the recognition on the part of the international community of the special situation and needs of small islands. The Barbados Declaration and Programme of Action have as their overall objective the management of environmental problems, the management of our vital natural resources and the improvement of human-resource capability and institutional requirements for sustainable development of small island States in the overall context 8 of Agenda 21. We look forward to the full support of the United Nations and the international community when the comprehensive review and appraisal of the implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action takes place in 1999. A new phase of international cooperation for the Caribbean region was heralded in May 1997 at the first meeting of the secretariats of CARICOM and the United Nations, from which emanated a work programme for the implementation of special projects. We commend this initiative and are confident that this new relationship will be of benefit to the people of the Caribbean region. The volcanic eruptions in Montserrat bring to the fore the vulnerability of small islands to natural disasters. This phenomenon and other environmental problems have received increased recognition since the 1992 Rio Conference on Environment and Development. Trinidad and Tobago shares the anguish felt by the citizens of the Caribbean island of Montserrat, which is fast becoming uninhabitable. CARICOM member States have responded within their limited capabilities to the disaster, and we will continue to provide logistic and other support. To this end, Trinidad and Tobago, in response to the plight of the Government and people of Montserrat, has pledged financial and technical assistance, medical and other relief and engineering personnel, and has been involved in the establishment of a CARICOM village in the northern part of the island of Montserrat — a decision that was taken at the recent conference of CARICOM Heads of Government. Within our available resources, Trinidad and Tobago will continue to be of assistance. The special concerns of small island developing States were also incorporated in the recently adopted Agenda for Development. The Agenda recognizes the fact that economic development, social development and environmental protection are interdependent and mutually reinforcing components of sustainable development, and are the basis for the achievement of a higher quality of life for all people. The Government of Trinidad and Tobago attaches great significance to this issue. We are therefore pursuing economic, social and infrastructural development in a sustainable way which avoids environmental degradation, conserves our natural resource endowment and helps to build and maintain a long-term national capacity to support rising standards of living for the population, as well as opportunities for self-actualization. Recent steps to promote sustainable development in Trinidad and Tobago in the area of environmental management include: the establishment of an environmental management authority and drafting of a national environmental policy; the development of environmental standards; the preparation of a water resources management strategy; the development of a national parks and watershed management project; and the commissioning of a study to assist in establishing a policy framework and facilities for the management of oil and hazardous wastes. Trinidad and Tobago has also ratified several international conventions relating to the environment: the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer; the 1994 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change; the 1994 Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal; and the 1996 Convention on Biological Diversity. In the area of macroeconomic policy, we have proceeded to liberalize the trade and exchange regimes to foster enhanced competitiveness; streamline the incentive framework; privatize State-owned enterprises to promote increasing levels of private investment; promote entrepreneurial activity through, among other measures, a venture capital regime; and to modernize and strengthen intellectual property legislation to encourage investment and the transfer of technology. In the social sector, the Government has focused on rationalization and restructuring of the social service delivery system; expanding access to education for the school-age population; rationalization and strengthening of the health services through the health sector reform programme; regularization of squatter communities; restructuring of the unemployment relief programme to allow for skill acquisition through on-the-job training; the establishment of a community development fund to provide financing for the delivery of basic social services and infrastructure to the poor and vulnerable population groups and communities; and the provision of institutional support for the strengthening of non-governmental organizations and community-based organizations to assist in this regard. Trinidad and Tobago is a cosmopolitan society in which the human rights of each individual are constitutionally guaranteed. We endeavour to achieve the cherished ideal of a truly democratic nation, in which all persons live together in harmony, with equal opportunities for all, in order that each individual may contribute to the process of national development. In this context, one of 9 the primary goals of the Government of Trinidad and Tobago has been to seek to wider participation in the decision-making process through a strengthened local government machinery in a manner that will promote the empowerment of local communities in the pursuit of development efforts and the promotion of good governance. In a similar vein, the United Nations, with the diversity of its membership, must harness individual and collective strengths to advance the interests of all Members of the Organization as we move into a new millennium. In this regard, Trinidad and Tobago welcomes the ongoing discussions aimed at reforming the membership and working procedures of the Security Council. It is our hope that this process will result in a Council whose composition more accurately reflects the wider membership of the General Assembly and whose working procedures are more open and inclusive than has previously been the norm. We all need to work steadfastly to improve the image of the United Nations from one of goal-setting to one which facilitates prompt action by Members in a manner that is consistent and wide-ranging and takes into account the special needs of the most vulnerable among us. It is incumbent on all Member States to imbue our Organization with a renewed sense of self-confidence, faith and optimism and to work in a global partnership to achieve the goals and ideals of the United Nations. We owe this legacy to present and future generations.  ﻿Speaking here on behalf of my country, I wish to congratulate the new Secretary-General of the Organization, Mr. Kofi Annan, who, after nine months in his post, now for the first time faces the responsibility of a session of the General Assembly, a session that is likely to be noteworthy and hard-working. Given his vast experience, he is well aware that the prestige and influence of his important post derive from the impartiality that places him above all pressure of interests and raises him to the permanent status of arbitrator for all and a symbol of the Organization. I also wish to offer my congratulations to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko, on his appointment as President of this session of the General Assembly. The pace of events today means that subjects that we considered just last year seem obsolete. Nevertheless, as we have still not found solutions to the most pressing problems facing the international community, it is logical to keep returning to those that are of concern to every member of that community and to the community as a whole, which now finds itself in the midst of the most rapid process of change in history. Inevitably, therefore, we will again go over, for example, human rights, the rule of law, free elections, the war on drugs, corruption, disarmament, terrorism and other compelling issues that crop up constantly among our concerns and in our work nowadays. I must place on record the fact that the Government of Venezuela has taken measures on all these issues to ensure increased respect for human rights, to wage war on drugs and to promote further disarmament and assist in the fight against corruption. Naturally, it is not easy for any country to show a clean record. A Government’s good intentions as regards human rights will always immediately come up against recurring internal violence and still untamed unruly elements, as in the example constantly presented by the audiovisual media in developed countries. But the will exists and an effort is being made to make Government agencies increasingly aware of our resolve to protect guarantee human rights. I wish to highlight the work done by the first United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ecuador, Mr. José Ayala- Lasso, and welcome the new High Commissioner, the former President of Ireland, Mrs. Mary Robinson, to whom my country wishes every success in the stimulating but difficult task ahead of her. With regard to corruption, terrorism and disarmament, my country, which proposed and was able to gain approval for the Inter-American Convention — the first of its kind in the world — in March 1996, remains steadfast in its efforts to ensure that every country is aware of the need to punish wrongdoing in government, wrongdoing that has tended to be treated with great indulgence. It may not be possible to eradicate corruption, but timely punishment — by ending impunity — will make such action risky. We have been enthusiastic supporters of all initiatives aimed at limiting the arms trade, in addition to being aware that there are free markets often beyond Government control, we are concerned that the industrialized countries, by lifting embargoes in this field, may begin moving towards the opposite extreme and promote the sale of weapons everywhere, under pressure from the military industry, which has an extremely powerful lobby. My country has resolutely backed the programme to eliminate landmines, hundreds of millions of which have been irresponsibly and thoughtlessly scattered in territories on every continent, daily taking their toll of many innocent victims, particularly children, whose mutilation by landmines is a constant reminder that we need to ensure justice for humankind. The fact that Venezuela has a neighbour where illegal drugs continue to be planted, processed and sold places us in the unfortunate position of being part of the supply route and within an area influenced by drug money. That is why the Government of Venezuela has taken every precaution to keep this danger to a minimum. It fights trafficking on land and sea and in the air, and has intercepted large shipments of drugs. The official in charge of all Government action against this powerful enemy of humankind has been given the rank of Minister. It goes without saying that we look forward hopefully to the next special session of the General Assembly, on illegal drug trafficking, to be held at the request of Mexico. We hope that it will produce clear solutions that will enable us to wage a more successful war on this scourge and, above all, put an end to money laundering, where Government efforts have so far been least successful. 11 As the threat of ever more pitiless and atrocious acts of terrorism has spread around the world and, to no small extent, here on our American continent, Venezuela has taken an interest in ensuring that the international community is made increasingly aware of its responsibilities in joint efforts to approve a convention for the suppression of terrorist bombings. That convention is currently being considered by the General Assembly, in a body that should be completing its work shortly. When the Inter-American Convention against Corruption was approved, we voiced our hope that, given that the disregard for of ethical standards that has fostered this crime has been a worldwide and not a strictly American phenomenon, the subject would one day be taken up by the United Nations in order to produce an international convention giving voice to the concern felt by all countries over this problem and harnessing the general willingness to put an end to impunity. The day seems to have come when the Member States of this Organization will work together to do away with the tolerance encountered on all continents towards this canker afflicting politics and administration; a canker whose breeding ground is not underdevelopment, but the moral decay of the State and society; a canker that seriously and increasingly hinders the trade that is a necessary part of economic globalization. My Government has welcomed the idea of changes not only in the structure, but even in the philosophy of this 50- year-old Organization. Since the lives of the peoples of this world have undergone such profound changes, it would be inexcusable for the United Nations, which represents them all, to remain untouched. We have considered the various plans for reforms and watched the efforts made by the outgoing President of the General Assembly over these past few months to achieve some, at least, of the essential changes to the system during his term in office. And, although we believe this issue to be both timely and urgent, we do not feel that there is imminent consensus on the suggested changes which, above all, relate to membership on the Security Council. In any case, it is only fair to recognize the serious efforts being made to end the stagnation within this Organization and launch the debate that is just beginning. Venezuela supports an increase in the number of permanent Members on the Security Council, provided there is no discrimination of any kind and that there is due regard for the interests of the international community, including fair representation of all geographical regions, in line with other new circumstances. We feel that there are great expectations and high hopes that the Secretariat will become more efficient and that the Organization’s burden of projected expenditures may be eased. It is also essential that Member States pay their contributions on time. None of us can refuse to honour a freely accepted obligation, nor make payment conditional in a way that presents a threat to the equality of States and the dignity of the world forum of which we are a part. My country’s position, however, is not limited to this alone. It goes beyond an analysis of the opportunities and rules of the veto to the elimination of the veto altogether. It has to do with the reform of the Secretariat itself and with economic and social issues, especially funding for development, as envisaged in the relevant document. That is why we feel that consideration should be given to the ideas recently expressed by both the Group of 77 and the Non-Aligned Movement as regards not only this subject, but also consensus on the other reforms. Venezuela supports the convening of an international conference on financing for development, in cooperation with international financial institutions, to propose innovative and bold mechanisms in this area. Such mechanisms must include the mobilization of capital resources for investment in non-industrialized countries while at the same time, opening the door to the opportunities offered by the private sector. Non-governmental organizations — increasingly active in today’s world — could contribute even more towards attainment of the aims of the Charter of United Nations in this field of action. My country has launched an intensive round of consultations with these organizations in what it has called a “Dialogue between senior Government and non-governmental organizations”, so as to draw up a plan for the promotion, protection and observance of human rights in Venezuela. We welcomed the Convention on the Law of the Non-Navigational Uses of International Watercourses as a well-conceived initiative. That is why Venezuela played an active role in the various stages of the drafting of the document, which required years of work, and led to the successful conclusion of a document that includes virtually all the provisions on this subject that exist in international law. My country signed the Convention yesterday and we call upon other countries to do the same. 12 As Venezuela has always been in favour of the establishment of an international criminal court, we wish to draw attention to what the international community has done to deal with and punish international crimes against peace and security, first with the creation of ad hoc courts and then with the creation of a permanent body such as that court. By thus institutionalizing and centralizing the political will of States, we will help prevent the possibility of the winners in a conflict from being tempted to become the judges of the defeated. This seems the appropriate time and place to mention the Ibero-American community of which Venezuela is a part and the five hundredth anniversary of Christopher Columbus’s only landing on continental America in his voyages. Since 1991, 500 years after the discovery of America, thanks to an initiative of the King of Spain, the 21 countries that proudly share the honour of being members of the Ibero-American community have met once a year, in a different city each time. I say “proudly” because in their colonial endeavours both Spain and Portugal took a missionary approach. While imposing their political power and territorial government, they also disseminated Christianity and passed on with conviction their European civilization and culture. Thus in Spanish and Portuguese America, the mixing of blood and cultures took root, making our world a different one, a world characterized by social egalitarianism, religious tolerance and a strong and deeply rooted freedom. The effects of this situation, which defines and unites American existence from north to south, makes this community stand out. It does not set it apart from others, but, in this era of globalization, it affirms the very particular features of Ibero-American identity. This idea has evolved well, beginning in Guadalajara, then continuing in Madrid, Salvador de Bahia, Cartagena, Bariloche and Santiago. The seventh summit meeting will be held on Margarita Island in my country. As the host country suggests the key topic for discussion at each meeting, the President of Venezuela, Mr. Rafael Caldera, has proposed the general heading of “Ethical values of democracy”, a suggestion that has been accepted with great enthusiasm. The Governments of Venezuela and the other 20 countries of Ibero-America insist that it is not enough to have formal democracy if corruption is rampant, if inefficiency persists, if justice is not effective, or if the action taken by the democratic sectors is neither satisfactory nor transparent. Thus, this general topic encompasses other very specific issues having to do with social justice, human rights, electoral transparency elections, the sincerity of political parties and, unavoidably, truth in information. That is the nucleus of the agenda for the meeting to be held on 8 and 9 November on Margarita Island. It is not out of place to explain to this Assembly that there are good reasons for this agenda. The economic changes and the political upheavals of our world have wreaked havoc on the set of values that was, until recently, the foundation on which people’s lives rested. The weakness of social justice is pathetic. In more than a few countries, unavoidable macroeconomic adjustments have affected vast numbers of people who are victims of injustice and who are unable, both mentally and physically, of coping with these changes, leaving them even worse off than they were before. Something must be done to improve the lot of these multitudes during a transition that, although necessary, is still painful. The subject of human rights, which I mentioned briefly at the beginning of my statement, is vitally important, and it would not be surprising if some day it were to replace “democracy” as a term and as a concept. Certain statements on this subject may have been exaggerated in the heat of the moment. But the truth is that we must march firmly forward towards a time when every human being, without exception, feels for his fellow man the same respect that he asks for himself. This is a matter of education, training and will on the part of Governments, so that the bad examples from the more developed countries that are passed on by the media do not lead the developing countries to continue violating these rights. Despite the fact that democracy has taken root in virtually all the countries in our region — seemingly the desideratum of our times — it now faces a variety of dangers, such as elections rigged by international organized crime. The most specific and dangerous case has to do with the influential role that drug trafficking and money laundering now play in elections, allowing crime to become closely entwined with political power. My country’s position in this regard is to warn political parties to make sure their electoral campaigns are 13 transparent by keeping these campaigns short and to the point so as to avoid any improper financial influence. Democracy is, by its very nature, a system of political parties. There is no democratic system without political parties. Yet it is obvious that the downfall of democracy is often due to carelessness on the part of the political parties on which it is based, when, setting aside the ethics of service, ideology and efficiency, they are tempted to take advantage of the resources of the State using the pretext of lengthy, complex and costly election campaigns. It would seem that the time has come to return to the old political ideas or to invent new means of expression in order to heal and revitalize democracy. Many people reacted by voicing doubts and fears when the subject of the people’s right to truthful information was raised. Media groups have even claimed that this proposal is full of hidden dangers. Nevertheless, the straightforward intent of this proposal is to strengthen the influence of the media at a time when they are virtually the first estate. We consider this right to be the counterpart to the media’s right to carry out their activities in absolute freedom, given the fact that society legitimately aspires, in turn, to be properly, accurately and truthfully informed. In an era in which the media have the most amazing technologies at their disposal — such as those providing instantaneous communication — there can be no explanation for information that distorts, embellishes or tampers with the truth. All the power that we give the media, essential for the values of democracy, would be lost if the media were to step outside their role and begin voicing opinions instead of reporting or made themselves part of the day-to-day debate of ideas. What Venezuela hopes to achieve by this debate is to make clear the responsibilities that each actor must play in a democracy, and the media are very important actors. That is the reason for this initiative: to warn and caution them, not by suggesting rules, but by appealing to a sense of responsibility, prompted by their own conscience, with regard to the worthy part that information must play in building a safe and trusting society. Following on from comments I made at this year’s Ibero-American Summit in Venezuela, I wish to mention the five-hundredth anniversary of the day when Christopher Columbus set foot on continental America, in August 1498, at the Paria Peninsula in Venezuela. Until then the feats of exploration by the discoverer of the New World had been limited to the islands of the Caribbean. He was not absolutely sure that he was actually standing on continental soil when in 1498 he reached Macuro, a small village on the eastern coast of Venezuela, but he certainly wondered as he witnessed the thrust of a strong current that overcame the gentle waves and gave proof of the presence of a great river, the Orinoco. This was an extremely important event for my country, which we plan to commemorate properly. It was the only time the great admiral stood on terra firma, which he called “Land of Grace”. In making this announcement, we hope the global community will join us in our celebration. In closing, I wish to express Venezuela’s faith in the ability of the Organization to act as a permanent arbitrator for peace and development. There is a greater need every day for the United Nations to act as the voice and conscience of humanity, but never as the spokesperson or tool of any group, region or interest other than the community which created it and of which it is the core.   ﻿Allow me at the outset, Sir, to congratulate you on your election as President of the fifty-second session of the General Assembly. Eritrea joins in the expressions of recognition of your attributes by previous speakers. You are presiding over an Assembly session that will be remembered for focusing not only on crucial international issues but also on the reform of our Organization. While wishing you success in your leadership, I also assure you of the full support and cooperation of the Eritrean delegation. I also seize this opportunity to pay tribute to the Permanent Representative of Malaysia, His Excellency Ambassador Razali Ismail, for the way he conducted the work of the fifty-first session, and to thank him for his far- sighted proposal on the reform of the Security Council. Likewise, I wish to extend sincere gratitude to the new Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the efficient and dynamic way he is discharging his duties. We are meeting at a critical juncture of history. After almost 50 years the dark and ominous clouds of world conflict no longer loom threateningly over the horizon. Those grim days are over. In the last few years we have taken great strides towards making the world safer for future generations. The road to disarmament has been made easier with the signing of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) by 146 world leaders in 1996. The world has also accelerated efforts to eliminate anti-personnel landmines. More importantly, there seem to be clear indications of a great change in values, attitudes and perceptions which will foster the creation of cooperative relationships among the States of the world, thus promoting new perspectives of common policies to solve mutual problems. True, we should, at the same time, remember that old and new conflicts continue to plague the world. Thus, destabilizing factors such as the marginalization of nations and peoples, transnational crimes, the use of violence and the threat of violence as instruments of national policy still haunt our planet. In addition, old and new conflicts in Europe, Asia and Africa seem to threaten or reverse the global gains achieved in the last few years. It is hoped that these will be the exceptions rather than the rule and, as relics of the past, will be swept away in the near future. In this respect, it is encouraging to note that the Security Council held, during the second week of the General Assembly, an unprecedented ministerial meeting on the security situation in Africa. This will encourage the United Nations to play a more meaningful and credible role in supporting regional initiatives to solve regional conflicts. Thus, perhaps for the first time, there is an opportunity to undertake a common, realistic and critical reappraisal of our involvement in world affairs and to come to an agreement on the role of the United Nations. The Members of the United Nations, both old and new, must welcome this opportunity to demonstrate their readiness to tackle these new global problems and the full intent of the contribution they can make to empower the United Nations to become a strong and relevant force in international relations. In recent years, there have been persistent requests for a change in the structure and mission of the United Nations. There is undoubtedly need for reform. The most obvious reason is the fact that today the Organization remains essentially the same entity that was created over 50 years ago in San Francisco. Its membership has more than tripled since then, with at least two dozen new States joining since 1990. Yet, its structure remains essentially the same. Also, the problems that face the world are so radically different that there is a dire need for the reorganization of priorities in the Organization’s mission. Although it is true that different States, or groups of States, will have different perceptions of what needs to be changed, the following are, in the opinion of my delegation, the most important issues that must be taken into consideration if change is to be meaningful and credible. First, there are only two major challenges confronting the world today: development and security. These are, of course, interdependent. It is evident that there will not be any development without peace. Yet, without development that improves the livelihood of people, the task of guaranteeing peace will be extremely difficult. The assaults on these two problems must be made simultaneously, and all of our actions should be 9 taken with an eye to solving both. Hitherto, emphasis has been on security to the detriment of development, with catastrophic results. Since the reason for this disparity, namely the cold war, no longer exists, it should not be too difficult to put a little more emphasis on development. Lately, however, there has been a growing emphasis on the political rather than the economic aspects of development — that is, on democracy and human rights. True, people everywhere are clamouring for the right to be free from dictatorships and to participate meaningfully in decisions which affect their lives, and they must be strongly supported in this. However, it must also be realized that the meaning of human rights and democracy is being challenged and questioned, and they are being given different interpretations. Whatever the case, any effort to apply standards of democracy and human rights, however defined, will not be successful unless the root causes of underdevelopment and poverty are effectively addressed. Any reform of the United Nations should, therefore, empower it to promote sustained economic growth in developing countries even more energetically. Only this will help to develop good governance, that is, democracy and human rights and stability, and will militate against inter- and intra-State conflicts. Secondly, the United Nations belongs to all of its Members. Thus, the increased participation of all of its Members in its activities is a right that must be exercised to safeguard against the arbitrary abuse of its powers and functions. Such a development would enhance immeasurably its effectiveness as a guarantor of peace. It is hardly possible to speak sincerely of a universal organization whose major decisions, taken by a few, will be binding upon the rest of the world. It is no longer acceptable to the rest of the world that a relatively small number of States, even after the proposed increase of membership in its major decision-making organs, should, in the name of international peace and security, dictate the agenda of the United Nations or impose a system of international conduct. Indeed, it is sad to note that the same countries that make democracy a condition in their foreign policies are adamant about maintaining an elite club of States in the consideration of Security Council membership. In any case, any future system must eschew cold-war doctrines and principles and give equal emphasis to social justice. Peace and justice are interrelated and cannot be mutually exclusive. There is thus no longer any excuse to deny equitable representation in the major organs of the Organization and undemocratically to deprive States of the opportunity to participate in the making of decisions which will affect their destinies and the welfare of their peoples. The United Nations will be in danger of being marginalized if it does not take into account the needs and aspirations of most of its Members and does not build trust between its Members, big and small, rich and poor, weak and strong. It can build such trust and mutual confidence only if it makes sure that democratic norms and principles are accepted and practised by all its Members. Thirdly, this is the age of decentralization. Whenever possible, therefore, the United Nations must create the appropriate modalities to enable regional organizations to assume tasks which they will be able to execute more effectively. To this end, the General Assembly must take the necessary steps to ensure a relevant role for regional and even subregional organizations, without losing its leadership role or eliminating its support. Fourthly, the urgency of reform is recognized, but it would be counterproductive to rush into decisions whose implications we shall live to regret. Those who resent the veto power of the five permanent members of the Security Council would be well advised to take the time, and to allow others to take the necessary time, to study issues before they make final decisions on such weighty matters. Since its independence in 1993, Eritrea has embarked on a course of nation-building, reconstruction and renewal. In this endeavour, we were inspired by the eternal ideas of our struggle, which enshrines justice, equity, human rights and equal opportunity to all, including, in particular, hitherto marginalized groups. In the last six years — for we liberated our country two years prior to our declaration of formal independence — we have taken the necessary measures to establish a regime of peace and marked stability in a region of the world in which they have been absent for several decades; consolidate our profoundly democratic tradition of struggle by adopting a new constitution and holding our first democratic regional elections; create a development-oriented State and government structure; ensure a corruption-free society; build schools and health facilities in most regions of our country; and formulate an economic and financial policy which fosters an environment that encourages investment and has thus made our country a new frontier of widely expanding opportunities. These policies have yielded good political, economic and social dividends that have enabled us to look to the future with hope and optimism. 10 In our foreign relations, we have been guided by two basic principles. The first is our deep conviction that, where there is goodwill, all can be resolved through peaceful negotiation without recourse to violence. A natural corollary of this belief is the firm conviction that all States, regardless of their ideological orientation, can live together in peace. This tenet underlies Eritrean foreign policy and has guided its relations with all the countries of the two regions — the Red Sea and the Horn of Africa — in which it is located. This has enabled it to establish an exemplary, close tie of friendship with Ethiopia, our erstwhile adversary. These close relations and friendship have widely manifested themselves over the last four years as we have coordinated activities in the political, economic and social fields. It has also helped us to defuse conflict and to arrive at a mutual agreement to resolve the conflict between us and the Republic of Yemen over the Eritrean Hanish-Zukar archipelago on the Red Sea by the peaceful means of arbitration. The State of Eritrea has time and again affirmed its adherence to the Agreement of principles of 21 May 1996 and expressed its commitment to abide by the decisions of the Arbitration Tribunal. Since both parties have committed themselves to abide by the decision of the Arbitration Tribunal, my Government feels that the dispute is already solved. Unfortunately, even the best of goodwill and intentions could not help avert bad relations with our other neighbour, the Sudan, which is bent on conducting a bad-neighbour policy, is at odds with almost all of its neighbours and with others beyond, and has, because of its avowed policy of exporting terrorism abroad, become an international pariah. The second pillar of Eritrean foreign policy is an unswerving devotion to justice and equity. This policy emanates from Eritrea’s subjection to the horrors of aggression and colonization at the height of the cold war. At that time, our pleas to the United Nations and the international community fell on deaf ears. Because of this, we are convinced that there are no substitutes for justice and equality for the purpose of ensuring the maintenance of peace in the world. These, too, have influenced our search for friendship and cooperation with our neighbours as well as with other States. They have also underlined our efforts to bring peace and stability to our region and to achieve an early end to the fratricidal conflict in Somalia, a just and fair resolution of the Sudanese conflict, and the development of economic, commercial and political relations among countries of the region. The conflict that has ravaged the Sudan for about two decades must be brought to an end. The absence of peace in the Sudan has had severe consequences for most of its neighbours. Thus, they have a substantial interest in the restoration of lasting peace, security and stability in the Sudan. To this end, those of its neighbours which are members of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) have, both collectively and individually, exerted much effort during the past seven years to promote an inter-Sudanese peace process. None of the members of IGAD has an interest other than ushering in peace in the Sudan. All have favoured and encouraged dialogue, compromise and tolerance. They were convinced that peace could be achieved on the basis of the Declaration of Principles formulated by IGAD after a serious assessment of the objective reality prevailing in the country. It is regrettable that until last month the Sudanese regime had done all it could to subvert the peace process it had willingly accepted. It has now accepted the Declaration of Principles. We hope it will respect its commitment and implement the provisions of that Declaration. If and when it does, it will bring our initiative to a successful conclusion and usher in peace and stability in the Sudan. I also wish to refer to the efforts made by IGAD concerning the tragic situation which still exists in Somalia. It will be recalled that the members of IGAD have both collectively and individually expressed deep concern that this grave situation has continued for many years and that no workable solution has yet been found. Many attempts to bring the concerned parties to the negotiating table have failed. Where they have succeeded, no agreement could be achieved. Where agreements have been reached, they have been broken soon after. In the global context, my country is fully convinced that international cooperation is of vital importance. To ensure sustainable development, Eritrea has been engaged in fostering regional integration and international cooperation because it is firmly aware of the importance of partnership in development. Eritrea believes that partnership can be ensured only when independence of choice and recognition of equality and mutuality exist. We in Eritrea are convinced that the world will benefit from a strong, purposeful and dynamic United Nations. We will therefore contribute, however modestly, to the creation of the conditions necessary to make it a real force which will ensure international peace and 11 security that is broadly defined and premised on development. We note with great interest and welcome the Secretary-General’s proposals for reform. We are studying them with care. We fully endorse the values and principles underlying the objectives of reform, as enunciated in the Secretary-General’s address to the current Assembly, particularly his reference to the new paradigms of cooperation. Today, I assure the General Assembly of our commitment to the United Nations and to its new principles and purposes and its vision of a new world, as well as its sincere commitment to promoting genuine peace and development and defending the cause of small, weak States and vulnerable peoples. One would think that a nation like Eritrea — which had been systematically betrayed by the United Nations during the past four decades — would have second thoughts about committing itself to the Organization. However, we always believed that there was nothing wrong with the message of the United Nations, and we had subscribed to it even in our days of struggle. Surely we cannot blame the message for the shortsightedness of the messengers. We urge others who share our feelings to join us in giving the Organization the wholehearted support it now deserves and needs if it is going to be as effective as we wish it to be.  ﻿Please permit me, Sir, at the outset, to offer my sincere congratulations to you on your election to the Presidency of the fifty-second session of the General Assembly. In the same vein, our congratulations are directed to the members of the Bureau on their election. I wish to assure you of the full cooperation of my delegation in the discharge of this heavy responsibility entrusted to you. I would also like to express my thanks to Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia for the able manner in which he discharged his responsibilities during his Presidency of the last session. At this juncture, I would like to pay a special tribute to Mr. Kofi Annan for his deserved election as Secretary-General of the United Nations and for the able manner in which he is carrying out his responsibilities. Looking at the agenda of this meeting, it is an historic meeting of the General Assembly and you, Sir, will be remembered for many years to come. Personally, I feel proud and privileged to be associated with this meeting. Last year, here in New York, members of the Group of 77 and China elected my country, Tanzania, to the chairmanship of the Group. The last nine months or so in that post have been a very exciting and challenging experience for me and my colleagues at our Mission to the United Nations and for the entire Government of the United Republic of Tanzania. We have been involved in several meetings, debates and negotiations on behalf of the Group. I am glad to say that, despite some setbacks, notable success and progress have been made in all our endeavours. All this was made possible through the cooperation, support and, above all, teamwork of all members of the Group. We thank all members for their support. Two years ago, world leaders met here to celebrate 50 years of the existence of the United Nations. Besides taking stock of the progress made and the lessons learned, the Heads of State or Government endeavoured to chart the institutional framework and operational parameters that could enhance the Organization's relevance and effectiveness in a changed international environment. In this context, apart from the Organization's traditional roles of maintaining international peace and security and providing humanitarian assistance, it was also found essential to place development cooperation issues at the centre of United Nations activities. The United Nations itself needed to undertake appropriate reform measures so that it would be better able to deal with the challenges of the new global economy. To facilitate the reform process in the socio- economic field, developing countries participated actively and effectively in work on the Agenda for Development to ensure the successful conclusion of the negotiations of this important process. These negotiations were completed in June 1997, and I should like to commend the Ad Hoc Open-ended Working Group of the General Assembly on this issue for its good work. Building on the outcome of recent United Nations conferences and other relevant agreements, the Agenda for Development underscores that sustained economic growth is essential to the economic and social development of all countries, in particular developing countries. While acknowledging the importance of national policies and measures in the development process, the Agenda for Development calls for action towards a dynamic and enabling international economic environment, including such aspects as an open, rule- based, equitable, secure, non-discriminatory, transparent and predictable multilateral trading system and the promotion of investment and the transfer of technology and knowledge. Additionally, the Agenda calls for enhanced international cooperation in the mobilization and provision of financial resources for development. It also underscores the need for an effective, equitable, development-oriented and durable solution to the external 21 debt and debt-servicing problems of the developing countries. Many developing countries are not able to benefit from the twin processes of the liberalization and the globalization of the world economy. These processes benefit some countries while causing instability and marginalization in others, particularly in developing countries. The least-developed countries face the greatest risk of further marginalization. This is why they continue to demand that such uneven trends be addressed, and that the World Trade Organization and other related international organizations adopt specific and concrete measures to mitigate the adverse effects arising from the implementation of the Uruguay Round agreements. These measures must include long-term financial and technical support, the transfer of technology, and the improvement of the trade performance of the developing countries. It is also necessary to ensure full and effective participation of the developing countries in the international economic decision- making processes. Concerning financial flows, it is imperative to reverse the overall decline in official development assistance and to achieve the agreed target of 0.7 per cent by the turn of the century. We appeal to developed countries to reaffirm their commitments to meet this target. Other sources of concessional external financial assistance should also be strengthened to enable them without conditionalities to increase resources for disbursement in support of the developing countries. In addition to official development assistance and multilateral assistance, the growth in foreign direct investment in developing countries is of particular importance. However, foreign direct investment portfolio flows are going to very few developing countries, those which are already growing fast; very little, or none, is going to the least-developed countries. For example, Africa has received only a small proportion of the total net private flows, despite extensive reforms that continue to be undertaken. The challenge to the international community in this respect is to ensure that adequate capital and investment flows also reach the least-developed countries so as to accelerate their pace of development. This could be done through, inter alia, the improvement of economic and social infrastructure in the least-developed countries. External indebtedness is one of the major obstacles to the development efforts of many developing countries. It is acknowledged that even with sound economic policies and with full appreciation of the debt-rescheduling arrangements in place, developing countries continue to face an unbearable debt-servicing burden. There is hence an urgent need for adopting durable solutions to external debt and debt-servicing problems, particularly those of the heavily indebted poor countries. More also needs to be done in terms of debt stock cancellation and forgiveness. We appreciate recent initiatives to reduce debts, both those within the Naples terms of the Paris Club, and those within the multilateral framework, such as the heavily indebted poor countries initiative of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. However, the criteria for eligibility should be more flexible to enable more countries to benefit from these arrangements. As it is now, it is almost a nightmare for a country to qualify in terms of conditionalities involved and the time it takes before reaping the first benefits after qualifying. It is like being so near yet so far. The debate on development is closely interlinked with that on the environment. In June this year, a special session of the Assembly was held to review and appraise the implementation of Agenda 21 five years on. It is regrettable that the special session came out with no concrete agreement or commitments on the cross-cutting issues of financial resources and technology transfer. For while it was possible to agree on follow-up action on some of the sectoral issues such as forests, energy, climate change, desertification, fresh water and others, lack of concrete agreement on issues related to financial resources and technology transfer militates against effective realization of the little that was agreed upon. In his statement at the special session on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, my President, His Excellency Mr. Benjamin William Mkapa, emphasized that all countries should rededicate themselves to the Rio Declaration in order to achieve the goals of sustained economic growth and sustainable development. He further stressed the need for creating a more conducive international economic environment, to enable developing countries to gain access to new and additional resources and technology on concessional and grant terms. I wish to reiterate that call today. Other major international conferences and world summits held since 1990 will also come up for review in the near future. It is our hope that a new spirit of international partnership in resolving the various socio- economic problems facing, particularly, developing countries will emerge and that international support for the implementation of the various programmes of these 22 conferences will continue to be provided by the international community. In recent years, South-South cooperation has evolved into an important modality for addressing the development needs of developing countries. We are convinced that South-South cooperation provides a sound basis for promoting economic growth and increasing technical capacities for acceleration of development in the developing countries. The Group of 77 and China pledge to intensify existing cooperation and solidarity among its members with a view to sharing development experiences and solving some of the development problems facing them. I agree with the Secretary-General that reform of the United Nations is not an event but a process. General Assembly resolution 50/227 and the Secretary-General's proposals provide a basis for the discussion of United Nations reforms. However, we strongly feel that emphasis should be placed on the overall policy thrust and mission of the Organization geared towards the strengthening of its economic role. Furthermore, institutions that deal with economic issues, such as the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) and the relevant Economic and Social Council bodies and regional commissions, should remain. They should also be strengthened to ensure that the development concerns of developing countries are taken fully into account. As for the reform of the Security Council, my country stands for more democratization and equity in this crucial organ of the United Nations. We stand for the expansion of its membership in both the permanent and non-permanent categories, with the additional members in the permanent category getting veto power. The expansion in both categories should include not only Japan and Germany, but also equitable representation of the developing countries of Africa, Asia and Latin America. All reforms must be conducive to realizing the broad purposes and principles of the Charter and to improving the efficiency of the United Nations in all areas. They must also contribute to a more positive and effective United Nations role in promoting world peace and development, and meet the aspirations of developing countries. I am confident that we will be able to achieve a broad consensus as long as all of us engage in deliberations in good faith and with a readiness to consider all legitimate concerns. Tanzania appreciates the changes that have taken place in the area of disarmament. The threat of nuclear war may not at present manifest itself in the ideological confrontation of the past, but it has not gone away or receded. It is still with us, and we should guard against any complacency that we are any safer today. Nations still possess nuclear warheads, and new generations of these weapons are being manufactured. The total elimination of these weapons must continue to be the central purpose of our disarmament agenda. While nuclear weapons still pose a potentially grave threat to international peace and security, conventional ones have had a devastating effect, particularly in areas of conflict. Among these are anti-personnel landmines, which maim and kill the innocent, even long after war has ended. The effects of these weapons are evident all over the world, with their most violent manifestation in countries such as Angola, Cambodia, Mozambique and Bosnia. Tanzania has supported, and will continue to support, a worldwide ban of these weapons through the framework of the Ottawa process and looks forward to becoming an effective party to the instrument just concluded in Oslo, Norway. At the same time, we hope that the elimination of anti-personnel landmines will not be seen as an end in itself, but as part of the overall objective of eliminating other weapons, especially weapons of mass destruction. As the United Nations grapples with the challenges of peace and development, it is still faced with many political problems which need urgent resolution if humanity is to prosper. From Latin America and the Caribbean to Europe, from Asia to the Middle East and Africa, the United Nations is faced with the arduous task of promoting peace, democracy and good governance as the enduring pillars of development. We congratulate the people of Liberia for having conducted a successful democratic election, which, we hope, has ushered in a new era of peace in that country. Now, as they seek to regain their footing and begin the arduous task of national reconciliation, healing and economic reconstruction, they will need the support of the international community. At a time when Liberia is emerging from destruction and suffering, we are deeply concerned that Sierra Leone is sinking deeper into chaos at the expense of peace, development and democracy for that country. The Government of Tanzania has associated itself fully with the efforts made within the framework of the 23 Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) to restore democracy and constitutional rule in Sierra Leone. Even at this late hour, we continue to hope that the Sierra Leonean military will realize the folly of their misadventure and agree to return their country to constitutional rule. In the meantime, the continuing efforts of the West African region, and Africa in general, merit expanded support so as to put an end to the destructive cycle of military coups in Sierra Leone. In Angola, we continue to be concerned by the manoeuvres of UNITA to stall the process of implementation of the Lusaka accords. Our concern is given added urgency by the steady degeneration of the situation in the country and the likelihood of a return to open hostilities and war, with all the destruction and suffering that portends for the people of that country. We urge UNITA to abandon its obstructionist policies and abide by the Lusaka peace accords. We hope the United Nations will remain engaged in Angola. The situation in the Great Lakes region remains precarious. The consequences of decades of misrule in some countries of the region have been horrendous in terms of suffering, war, death and lost opportunities to harness its great development potential. We regret that the situation in Burundi shows no sign of improvement. The military authorities have persisted in frustrating the efforts of the region within the framework of the Arusha initiative, under the chairmanship of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, to facilitate the process of political dialogue. Tanzania and the other countries of the region are persisting in their efforts because we believe there is no alternative to dialogue but war and more suffering for innocent civilians. The region has no other interest in Burundi but to help. At the regional level, meetings were held in Arusha on 4 September, and the leaders reiterated their commitment to the search for peace in Burundi and called upon the military authorities there to abandon the course of confrontation and seek dialogue and political accommodation with all elements in Burundi. The region has been categorical in restating that the Burundi authorities should be under no illusion that they can bury their heads in the sand or wish the problem away. They simply have to face reality and dutifully rise to the occasion. Certainly the region and the international community cannot leave them alone and allow them to lead the country into self-destruction and war, with all the attendant problems that creates for Burundi and its neighbours. I wish to appeal to the international community to continue assisting the region so that our goal of restarting the dialogue for peace in the country is achieved. In Rwanda, fortunately, the situation is steadily stabilizing, particularly after the return of most of its citizens, who had been coerced into a drifting life in exile as refugees. Yet the difficulties which face that country are enormous. The process of recovery from the immense moral, physical and spiritual effects of the 1994 genocide will be painful and slow. As Rwanda struggles to come to terms with the genocide, reconcile with itself and continue on the path of national healing and renewal, it needs our solidarity and support. With President Laurent Kabila's assumption of the leadership of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the process of returning to democratic rule has begun, albeit slowly. We realize that it will not be an easy or swift process, given the political rigidity and the policies of political exclusion to which that country was subjected for decades. We appreciate the enormity of the task of putting the country back on its feet, restoring Government institutions and setting out towards democratic recovery. Given this background, what the Government and people of the Democratic Republic of the Congo need most is solidarity, understanding and material support from the international community. The political problems of the Great Lakes have precipitated a grave humanitarian challenge as millions of people have been forced into a life of exile as refugees. This has placed an enormous burden on the countries of the region, including my own, which has had to shoulder it without commensurate resources. We appreciate the great work done by United Nations agencies and many humanitarian non-governmental organizations in terms of providing the much-needed assistance to the refugees. Indeed, without this support, the life of the refugees would have been most unbearable. Yet even with this much-appreciated assistance, the burden left to refugee- receiving States has been enormous. The economic, social, environmental and security consequences of hosting the refugees will have long-lasting effects from which these countries will continue to suffer even after the repatriation of the refugees has been completed. This raises the fundamental issue of assisting the asylum countries, not only to cope with the immediate task of meeting the needs of the refugees, but also with the long- term effects of hosting them. This aspect needs addressing. 24 Somalia may no longer be on our television screens or worthy of the news headlines, but it is still a problem which must not be forgotten. The country is still fragmented, and fighting among the factions in conflict is not yet over. There is a chance that through the Sodere initiative there may be some positive developments. The United Nations needs to continue associating itself closely with the efforts being expended by the Intergovernmental Authority for Drought and Development and the Organization of African Unity aimed at bringing durable peace to Somalia. In Western Sahara, too, we are concerned by the apparent freeze in the implementation of the settlement plan. As we reiterate our solidarity with the Frente POLISARIO, we express the hope that the initiatives of the representative of the Secretary-General, in the person of the former United States Secretary of State James Baker, will bear fruit and remove the prevailing political difficulties in the implementation of the settlement plan. Tanzania continues to follow closely the developments in the Middle East which now threaten peace in the area. In this regard, Tanzania reiterates its solidarity with the Palestinian people and calls upon the Palestinian and the Israeli authorities to persist in their efforts to consolidate dialogue and move forward in elaborating permanent arrangements for peace. We still believe that, ultimately, enduring peace in the region lies in the return of all the occupied Arab land and in the full enjoyment by the Palestinian people of its inalienable right to self- determination and independence, including the establishment of a homeland for themselves within internationally recognized boundaries. In conclusion, as we move into the new millennium, the world is still a place largely besieged by poverty and underdevelopment, conflict and war. The giant leaps of science and technology which have enabled humankind to explore outer space and to shrink the world into a global village have so far not been adequately and evenly channelled into meeting the compelling needs of the greater part humanity. The world will transit into the next millennium divided between those who are prosperous and at peace and those living in abject poverty and at war. Therefore, it must be the overriding objective of the United Nations to ensure that this disparity is overcome. The challenge that we must all face is to strengthen this Organization by unconditionally supporting it fully, politically and financially to enable it to serve humanity better.  ﻿I warmly congratulate Minister Udovenko on his election to the helm of the fifty-second session of the General Assembly. His profound experience in international affairs is the best guarantee for the success of his mandate. Allow me also to thank his predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail, who led the fifty- first session of the General Assembly with great distinction. On all the broad issues confronting the General Assembly, Italy supports the statement made on Tuesday by the Foreign Minister of Luxembourg on behalf of the European Union. Today we have a historic opportunity to connect principles and reality, give life to our ideals and shape this Organization for decades to come. The ideologies that divided humankind in this century have crumbled. Meanwhile, the system engineered with such foresight by the founding Members amidst the horrors of the most devastating war the world has ever seen has maintained and increased its significance. We no longer live in a world of purely national interests. More and more, policy-making is informed by global concerns such as human rights, solidarity and social justice. At the threshold of the twenty-first century, let us pledge to settle religious and ethnic conflicts through dialogue, tolerance and cultural exchange, and to find collective answers to international terrorism, organized crime, drug trafficking and the degradation of the environment. We can join forces to eradicate poverty, which is a major cause of social injustice and political turmoil in the world, and guarantee dignity, respect and better living standards for every human being. The goals of a new world order, founded on mutual trust and the rejection of the threat and use of force, are peace, security, sustainable development and respect for the fundamental freedoms of the individual. But these values cannot be dictated by an elite group of States. The future of humankind is the responsibility of the international community as a whole. As the United Nations prepares to meet the challenges of the third millennium, the General Assembly has a role of paramount importance to play. 15 At the opening of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly there was unanimous consensus on the need for a far-reaching reform of the United Nations system. In my address I stated that if the United Nations was to respond effectively to the growing concerns that had emerged, reform could no longer be postponed. The international community requires higher standards of security, development and democracy, and it needs them now. On that occasion, I listed 10 specific proposals to make United Nations peacekeeping operations more effective, and I am glad to see that progress has been made on some of them. Procedures for periodic meetings between the Security Council and troop-contributing countries have been consolidated. To help the Organization respond to crises where and when they arise, Italy recently became the sixth country to formalize its participation in standby arrangements for United Nations peacekeeping operations. President Clinton said in his speech on Monday that the first task of the United Nations must remain the pursuit of peace and security. When a situation of serious instability developed in Albania last March, the Security Council — with the full support of the Secretary- General — acted promptly, authorizing a coalition of the countries, led by Italy, willing to form a Multinational Protection Force. During the four months of its mandate, Operation Alba enabled the safe delivery of humanitarian assistance, created a secure environment for the missions of international organizations, and made democratic elections possible. In short, it helped put the country back on its feet. One of the keys to its success was an innovative approach to peacekeeping, involving the rapid planning and deployment of the Force, and close coordination among the participating countries and the host country, under the constant monitoring of the United Nations. To consolidate the gains that have been made and lay the foundations for Albania's growth and prosperity, the next step is to rehabilitate the State institutions and economy. With this in mind, the Italian Government has convened a ministerial conference for October, in Rome, with the participation of the Albanian Government and all the relevant international organizations to assess needs and decide on a common course of action. For over half a century, the United Nations has been seeking to establish a permanent international criminal court to prosecute and punish genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity, wherever and by whomever they are committed. This is a test of our collective responsibility, made even more pressing by the terrible massacres that have characterized recent ethnic conflicts, and Italy confirms its strong support, pledges its active contribution to this endeavour, and is prepared to host in Rome the diplomatic conference to adopt the statute for the international criminal court. A second major challenge is arms control. Before dealing with the security requirements of tomorrow, we must stop living by the fears of yesterday. New standards of security can be produced only through international cooperation under the leadership of the United Nations. Italy has some of the world's strictest and most advanced legislation on the export of arms. I am proud to report that this past June the Italian Government unilaterally decided to renounce the production, export, stockpiling and use of anti-personnel landmines, and enabling legislation to this effect has already been passed by one branch of our Parliament. But the full value of this commitment can only be realized if it is shared by all countries, whether or not they are parties to the Ottawa process. The recent Oslo conference, to be sure, made remarkable accomplishments, but they are not yet universal. To achieve this goal, our efforts should be complemented by the continuing involvement of the Conference on Disarmament. Two months ago, Secretary-General Kofi Annan presented a package of ground-breaking proposals to improve the effectiveness of the Organization and enhance its ability to meet the new challenges. Those proposals deserve our full support. One important goal of the Secretary General's reform plan is to energize the strategic direction provided by the General Assembly. To this end, we need to streamline the agenda and identify priorities for consideration in the short- and medium-term. Since the time available for plenary debates is limited, we should focus on matters of general interest. The reform of the Organization is a question of the highest priority for the current session of the General Assembly, as the Secretary-General himself has underlined. In the coming months, two other major subjects also command our attention: the financial situation of the Organization, and the structure and composition of the Security Council. To function properly, the Organization has to be able to rely on adequate resources. Assessed contributions must be paid in full, on time and without conditions by 16 Member States. Italy, for its part, has always complied with this fundamental rule. Nevertheless, we believe that the time has come to agree on a realistic new scale of assessments, based on Member States' capacity to pay and making the Organization less dependent on the contributions of a single country. However, let there be no confusion about our support for a review of the scale of assessments. There can be absolutely no link between Members' contributions and Security Council reform, lest the impression be created that permanent seats are up for sale. This brings me to the reform of the Security Council. There is broad agreement that reform is needed to bring the Council more in line with the new realities of the world in which we live. The reform must be inspired by the principles of democracy, equitable geographical representation and transparency. These are the very principles guiding the proposal presented by Italy. While we are prepared to look constructively at other proposals, we must guard against those advocating a system that would divide Member States into four categories: first-class countries — the five current permanent members of the Security Council, with veto power; second-class countries — the new permanent members from industrialized nations, without veto power; third-class countries — “pseudo-permanent” rotating members, without veto power, from developing nations in different regions; and fourth-class countries — the overwhelming majority of United Nations Member States, with fewer chances than ever of serving on the Security Council. Such stratification of membership, reminiscent of the caste system in ancient empires, would defy the fundamental principles of logic and democracy, and marginalize some of the countries most active in the Organization. How could any of us accept relegation to the last of these categories and go back to our people and Parliaments and tell them that we actually voted in favour of our country's demotion to fourth-class status? Let me stress that this type of problem would not be generated by the Italian proposal, which calls for an increase only in non-permanent members, to be democratically elected by the General Assembly. Another aspect of reform is the question of the veto. This cannot and should not be discussed independently of the issue of enlarging the Council. The two issues are inseparable. Indeed, every aspect of Security Council reform should be addressed at the same time and in the same context. Before determining the future size of the Council and the names of new members, we must define the criteria that should govern the reform. Ad hoc approaches will not work. Ultimately, no solution can be adopted unless there is broad consensus. And a lasting and equitable outcome cannot be reached through hasty and partial solutions. Forcing the issue would deepen divisions and jeopardize the larger and more urgent question before the General Assembly: approving the Secretary-General's reform package. In a longer-term perspective, I would like to add that a fact-finding inquiry recently conducted by the Italian Parliament envisaged a permanent seat on the Security Council for the European Union, as a natural evolution of its common foreign and security policy. Almost 55 years ago, on November 13 1942, President Roosevelt said that the future of the United Nations association “should not be restricted to the 28 signatories of the Atlantic Charter, but should be one which all nations could join.” President Roosevelt believed that the purpose of the United Nations should not be the defence of the status quo and that its strength did not lie in sheer numbers, but in the way that Member States engaged in collective deliberations and action. This vision should guide our pursuit of a more promising future for all the people of this world. History will not be lenient with us if we fail. ﻿Allow me at the outset to congratulate the President wholeheartedly on his election to the presidency of the fifty-second session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. I am especially pleased at the election of a distinguished representative of Ukraine, a country which is a neighbour and friend of the Republic of Moldova, to this important post. After declaring their independence six years ago, the Republic of Moldova and Ukraine worked to create prosperous and democratic societies. I am convinced that the President, with his great skills and with the support of all the Member States, will be able to discharge with distinction this lofty mission which has been entrusted to him during this crucial period for the United Nations. I would also like to express my appreciation for the contribution made by Mr. Razali Ismail in his capacity as President during the previous session. I wish also to express our gratitude to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his efforts to reform this global Organization. It is my honour and privilege to address the General Assembly for the first time, and I would like to convey a message of friendship and solidarity from the people of the Republic of Moldova. My country, which is very much devoted to the ideals of the Charter of the United Nations, strongly supports the reform process of the United Nations. That is why we have taken note with interest of the reform programme proposed by the Secretary-General. This package of proposals is designed to achieve a reform in order to deal better with the challenges of the coming millennium. We have welcomed such initiatives and we support them. It is clear that the reform of the United Nations can move forward only if the financial crisis of the Organization is settled. There is no doubt that Member States must fulfil their financial obligations on time and in full. At the same time, it is indeed necessary to reform the system for the payment of contributions in order to achieve a fair assessment, one that better takes into account the principle of capacity to pay of each country. For our part, we will spare no effort to honour our financial obligations. The Republic of Moldova fully supports the efforts of the United Nations to maintain international peace and security. In the five years since our country was admitted to membership in the United Nations, we have co- sponsored several resolutions in this important field of activity. In the field of disarmament, last year the delegation of the Republic of Moldova likewise voted in favour of the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. Consequently, I am pleased to report that on 24 September I signed this important Treaty on the complete ban on nuclear testing. We are convinced that the implementation of this Treaty can enhance international security. The Republic of Moldova also supports the efforts of the international community to limit the use of and ultimately to eliminate certain conventional weapons which have injurious and indiscriminate effects, including anti-personnel landmines. We are ready to contribute to the efforts being made to obtain these objectives. The positive developments which have characterized the activity of the Organization in recent years have brought about certain concepts and the diversification of mechanisms for action in the field of international peace and security. Some of these mechanisms could be implemented soon. Perhaps I need not stress here the usefulness and benefits of the United Nations standby forces, which all Member States welcome. Yet, I wish to emphasize that the Republic of Moldova would like to contribute to this system and that last year our Government expressed its readiness to take part in the United Nations standby forces. That is why my country intends to provide to the United Nations Secretariat as soon as possible information concerning contingents and equipment which are available for this purpose. Moreover, the Republic of Moldova is considering the possibility of taking part in United Nations peacekeeping operations. We believe that our country has already accumulated a certain amount of experience in this field through its participation in a variety of international manoeuvres. Militant separatism has become one of the main threats to international peace and security after the cold war period. Totalitarian regimes have engendered ethnic conflicts and frictions in certain countries of Central and Eastern Europe. Some conflicts are rooted in age-old animosities. Others, as is the case in the conflict involving the Republic of Moldova which broke out five years ago, are inspired by and supported from the outside, in order to recreate a form of by-gone domination. This is the reason why I would like to emphasize the fact that the recent separatist trends which have appeared in the newly independent States who are Members of the 29 United Nations have nothing in common with the legitimate aspiration of peoples to achieve self-determination. In our view, attempts to construe the right to self-determination as the right of an ethnic or national community to establish its own government and to splinter off are real dangers to international and regional security. Moreover, the right to self-determination is treated in the Charter of the United Nations as a principle which cannot serve to justify the violation of the principle of the independence and territorial integrity of a State. Nevertheless, it is imperative to define this principle of self-determination more precisely in order to avoid any subjective interpretations. It is quite clear that the stability of small and large States hinges on a number of factors, such as the rule of law, respect for human rights, democracy and economic development. Our Government is therefore striving to establish an equitable social system based on the respect for the dignity of the human person. And yet, the process of economic reform, with all its inherent problems, is retarding the achievement of these objectives. The high social costs of transition are felt throughout society. Despite all of these difficulties, we are nevertheless determined to continue the process of economic reform. We rely on the support of developed countries, the United Nations and other international agencies and organizations during this decisive moment in the reform of our country. I take this opportunity to express the gratitude of the people and Government of my country to those States and international institutions which have supported the strengthening of democracy and market-economy mechanisms in our Republic. Furthermore, I note with satisfaction that my country has made progress in building its civil society and in establishing democratic institutions. Nevertheless, it is a paradox that under such favourable conditions we have not succeeded in achieving a final settlement of the conflict which broke out in the summer of 1992. Yet, the authorities of the Republic of Moldova endeavour to find pragmatic solutions in order to maintain the integrity of the country. Following negotiations with the leaders of the separatist region, and with the mediation of the Russian Federation, Ukraine and the mission of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, an agreement was reached between the parties involved with regard to the general principles of the settlement of the dispute. A memorandum was likewise signed on the normalization of relations between the authorities of the Republic of Moldova and the Transdnestrian region. At the same time, the Presidents of Ukraine and the Russian Federation and the Chairman-in-Office of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) signed a joint Declaration emphasizing the importance of the parties' commitment in the memorandum to conduct their relations in the context of the existing borders of the country by granting special status to the eastern region of the Republic of Moldova. In view of the provisions of the memorandum, an ad hoc commission was established to negotiate the legal status of the Transdniester region. To our regret, negotiations in the Commission are deadlocked because of the intransigent and highly politicized position taken by the Transdniester side. Therefore, no mutually acceptable solution has been found on the key elements for resolving the dispute, namely, the legal definition of the status of Transdniester and the powers of the parties during the transitional period. In opposing the provisions of the accord, the Transdniester side insists on a settlement which runs counter to the Constitution of the Republic of Moldova and is prejudicial to the principle of sovereignty over the territory of the country. Despite the commitments they assumed by signing the memorandum, the separatist leaders have, exceeding their power, enacted certain unconstitutional laws establishing a so-called customs border in Transdniester and a “commission for the delimitation of the State border in the region”. In addition, a series of unlawful acts have been committed in the area controlled by the peacekeeping forces. I must therefore emphasize that it is vital to ensure more active mediation by the Russian Federation, Ukraine and the OSCE mission, as well as stronger action by the international community, led by the United Nations. I should like to say the conflict in Transdniester could destabilize the political and military situation, and threatens subregional and regional peace and security. We know that the separatist regime in Transdniester is supported by a powerful paramilitary force having the most modern weapons, obtained from the equipment available to forces of the Russian Federation illegally stationed on our territory. At the same time, the leaders of those opposed to constitutional authority are trying to obtain weapons belonging to the Russian military forces, while opposing the complete withdrawal of the troops of the Russian Federation and their weapons. It must therefore be pointed out that disarming and breaking up the Transdniester paramilitary groups is as important as the withdrawal of Russian troops. Both those processes must be monitored by international observers. We have reached the conclusion that an immediate and effective solution to this conflict 30 requires more active involvement by international bodies as well as the countries of the region and even the major Powers. We are awaiting such involvement, for our recent experience demonstrates that all attempts made by the authorities of the Republic of Moldova to settle the conflict in the Transdniester region through dialogue and negotiations have failed. The interests of the separatist leaders are subordinate to other interests, entirely political, going beyond our national context. There is a danger that the conflict will continue indefinitely. We believe that the problem of the eastern region of the Republic of Moldova could already have been resolved by peaceful means and in a civilized fashion if the separatist regime did not receive strong support from outside. More often than not such support has been given deliberately, for reasons of geopolitical interests, but sometimes the separatists in the eastern region of the Republic of Moldova have received unintentional, indirect support through the unlawful trade activities of companies and firms in developed countries. We hope that the Governments of countries where certain undertakings are giving political and technical support to the separatist regime in Transdniester will put an end to such activity. These actions can no longer be tolerated for they constitute ipso facto direct interference in the internal affairs of the Republic of Moldova. The illegal stationing of military contingents of the Russian Federation on the territory of my country continues. The deadline set by the 1994 Moldovan-Russian Agreement on the withdrawal of Russian troops from the territory is 21 October 1997. The fact that for three years the State Duma, unlike our Parliament, has failed to ratify the Agreement cannot be excused or explained. We have been assured on several occasions, at the highest level, that the question of the withdrawal of troops will be settled, and it is regrettable that this problem remains unresolved. We understand, of course, that the failure to ratify the 1994 Accord by the State Duma entails legal complications for the Russian Government. However, we believe that the time has come to find a solution to the question of troop withdrawal. In accordance with the principles of international law, no foreign army can be stationed on the territory of another State without its free consent. In addition, international organizations, particularly the OSCE, strongly support the unconditional, immediate, orderly and complete withdrawal of Russian troops from the territory of the Republic of Moldova. Finally, Russia's admission to the Council of Europe as a fully fledged member, was conditional on the timely withdrawal of its troops from the territory of the Republic of Moldova. We believe that the political forces in the State Duma opposing troop withdrawal will also be sensitive to the legal commitments of the Russian Federation. We hope that the removal of armaments and the withdrawal of troops from the territory of the Republic of Moldova will be speeded up and completed as soon as possible. This course would certainly serve the interests of both countries and would properly reflect the high level reached in the development of relations between the Republic of Moldova and the Russian Federation. In conclusion, I express the fervent hope that the work of the fifty-second session of the General Assembly will take place in a climate of solidarity, with a realistic and constructive approach to the complex problems facing the world at the end of this century. My delegation, like those of other Member States, is ready to make its contribution to achieve the purposes of the United Nations.﻿Mr. President, I have the distinct honour and privilege on behalf of my delegation to extend to you, Sir, our warmest congratulations upon your election as President of the fifty-second session of the General Assembly. Your election to this office is a fitting tribute to your personal qualities and recognition of the important role of your great nation in world affairs. We are confident that your wide experience and wisdom will ensure the success of our deliberations. You may rest assured of the fullest support and cooperation of my delegation. I would also like to thank Ambassador Razali Ismail for his remarkable contribution to the last session. We thank him for his strong leadership and his hands-on approach during the discussions of some of the most difficult and crucial issues concerning the future of our Organization. The changes taking place throughout the world today present new challenges for the United Nations system and call for a new approach in finding appropriate solutions. It is my firm belief that the success of the United Nations cannot be contemplated without reform and renewal of the Organization. We agree that the United Nations stands at a crossroads today. Its continued role and relevance depend on its ability to adapt to the new world environment. We now have before us a number of proposals contained in the Secretary-General’s report designed to better equip the United Nations to address its tasks in the new era. I thank the Secretary-General for this in-depth and valuable exercise. I take this opportunity to pay tribute to a great son of Africa and to his sterling qualities of leadership. The report not only addresses the strengths and weaknesses of our Organization, but also contains specific proposals to enable it to face present and future challenges on a sound footing. We subscribe fully to his view that this reform exercise is a process which will have to be carried out over a continuous period of time, given all its complexity and scope. I wish to assure you, Mr. President, that my delegation will extend its fullest cooperation and will actively participate in the deliberations on the report. We also endorse the Secretary-General’s proposals for promoting greater synergy within the United Nations system. We agree that they will advance complementarity and coherence. The effectiveness of the Organization will certainly be enhanced if it operates as an orchestrated unit at Headquarters and at country level, rather than as a group of semi-autonomous players. Likewise, we welcome the Secretary-General’s idea of setting up a development account to be fed by savings from reductions in non-programme costs. We express the sincere hope that sufficient funds will be made available to produce a significant impact on development programme financing. We should ensure that this dividend for development does indeed benefit the developing world, unlike the much-trumpeted “peace dividend” of the post-cold-war era. We uphold the proposals aimed at enhancing the strategic direction which the General Assembly should provide. However, such proposals should be subjected to the most careful scrutiny, because of all their 10 implications, particularly in respect to the smaller and more vulnerable Member States. The General Assembly, as the Secretary-General rightly points out, is the organ that “most fully embodies the universal and democratic character of the Organization.” (A/51/950, para. 40) While we support the long-standing need for focusing legislative debates and streamlining this Assembly’s agenda, we must ensure that this body does not end up being dominated by the concerns of the strong and powerful members only. Countries — big or small, like mine — should have equal possibilities of articulating any issue they consider important. It is by the way in which this Organization addresses issues most relevant to its smallest members that the international community at large will judge its significance. The debate on the reform of the Security Council seems to have registered some notable movement recently. However, the distance separating the main positions remains quite daunting. We hope that the wide spectrum of views expressed so far on this subject will eventually converge and that general agreement will be reached. Such agreement should ensure that the composition of the reformed Council is based on greater representation, transparency and equitable geographical distribution, with the inclusion of developing countries as permanent members. In this regard, we reaffirm our support for the position of the Non-Aligned Movement calling for the expansion of the Security Council on the basis of fair and adequate representation. Africa has also stated its position on this matter at the recent Organization of African Unity (OAU) summit. The current representation of Africa in the Council does not reflect its status as the most sizeable group of the Organization’s membership. Reform of this body must, therefore, restore Africa’s position to the fullest extent possible. In the same vein, my delegation would like to reiterate its support for India’s claim to a permanent seat in the Security Council. The globalization of the world economy is adding increasing pressures on the developing countries to embrace trade liberalization as a means to achieve economic growth. During the Uruguay Round negotiations developing countries made significant concessions in the hope of obtaining improved access to international markets. Many of them have still not seen the benefits of the new global trading system. Instead, they are haunted by the spectre of imminent erosion of preferences in their major export markets. Several African countries have made strenuous efforts to adhere faithfully to structural adjustment programmes and have adopted trade liberalization policies. Unfortunately, they have registered but an insignificant, if not declining, percentage of world trade. Africa’s trade should become the top priority of the international community; otherwise, the multilateral trading system will run the risk of becoming fraught with tensions and discrimination. It is unfortunate to note that foreign direct investment, which plays a central role in the ongoing integration of the world economy, is still highly concentrated in a few countries. The recent findings of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) indicate that Africa received merely $5 billion out of $349 billion of foreign direct investment last year. Excluding South Africa, the share of Africa in the total investment for the developing countries figured at only 4 per cent. This is the lowest share since the early 1980s, and is a further indication that the African region is not benefiting from the global foreign direct investment boom. The 33 sub-Saharan countries that are classified among the least developed countries are in fact receiving less that 1 per cent of the total foreign direct investment for Africa. It is vital that these countries be provided with greater assistance and investment and be given special attention by the international community. Otherwise, they will be further marginalized, with the risk of disappearing from the world economic map. We therefore wish this Assembly to give more attention to the development needs of the African continent. In this context, we welcome the recent special ministerial meeting of the Security Council, which has helped focus the attention of the international community on Africa. After several years of complacency and stagnation, there is now cause for some optimism. We agree that it is incumbent upon us Africans to put our house in order. But unless we are freed from our debt burden, future generations may never have the opportunity to have access to clean drinking water, health care or proper schooling while scarce resources have to be utilized for debt payments. For some countries, like Mozambique, which are just emerging from years of civil conflict, the Bretton Woods initiative may have to be implemented in order to reduce debt faster. Indeed, not only do these countries have to 11 reduce their crushing debt load, they also have to free resources to rehabilitate their economic infrastructure and fund social expenditure. Last week the British Foreign Secretary, Mr. Robin Cook, referred to the Commonwealth Finance Ministers meeting held in Mauritius earlier this month, at which the British Chancellor of the Exchequer, Gordon Brown, made specific proposals with respect to debt. These proposals, known as the Mauritius Mandate, are meant to set some of the poorest nations on a path towards sustainable development by the year 2000. We welcome this laudable initiative by the British Government to write off debts totalling 132 million pounds of heavily indebted poor countries of the Commonwealth. We hope that this important measure will encourage major financial institutions and creditor nations to come forward and participate fully in transforming the destiny of debt-ridden poor countries. We also welcome the various initiatives recently taken by the United States to promote investment and to develop a new trade regime for sub-Saharan Africa. We equally appreciate the partnership between the European Union and the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries, which has, through the successive Lomé Conventions, contributed immensely to the socio-economic development of the ACP countries. We are confident that the successor arrangement to the Fourth Lomé Convention will further consolidate this long-standing economic and trade partnership, and in this context we look forward to the continued support of the international community. We welcome the communiqué of the Denver Summit, which represents a significant advance over the New Global Partnership for Development adopted at the Lyon Summit. The Declaration “Africa: Partnership for development” focuses attention exclusively on the African continent, with particular emphasis on the least-developed and landlocked countries. However, in the pledge to integrate the poorest countries into this world economy through trade liberalization and investment policies, no specific targets were defined on trade expansion or tariff reduction. If these countries are to be completely weaned from official development assistance, not only should their capacity to produce be strengthened, but they must also be given full access to foreign markets for their products, especially those coming from their nascent and developing industries. We are fully conscious of the fact that North-South cooperation needs to be complemented by effective South- South cooperation. In this regard, the countries in our region have intensified their efforts to accomplish that goal. For the Southern African Development Community (SADC), a new promising chapter was opened with the recent admission of the Democratic Republic of Congo and Seychelles. With the inclusion of these two new members, the regional grouping has become an even more important economic area in the African continent. It has the potential of becoming the driving force in promoting growth and development. There is a strong determination among the SADC members to achieve regional integration through industrial transformation and trade growth. My Government is fully committed to this goal, and I am pleased to inform this Assembly that Mauritius will have the honour and privilege of hosting the SADC summit meeting next year. My Government is equally committed to the Indian Ocean Rim Association for Regional Cooperation (IOR- ARC), which regroups several countries of the Indian Ocean Rim in a tripartite network of Government, private sector and academia. The IOR-ARC was formally launched at a ministerial meeting in Mauritius in March this year with 14 founding members. It has generated tremendous interest among the countries of the region and internationally. We remain confident that the international community will lend its support to these regional associations. We welcome the timely initiative announced last week by the United States Secretary of State to enhance dialogue with SADC and encourage investments and trade exchanges. It is a matter of regret that the special session of the General Assembly held last June to review the progress made in the implementation of Agenda 21 was unable to agree on a frank assessment of the commitments entered into at Rio. Unfortunately, very little has been done on the ground. In some areas, particularly with regard to the level of official development assistance, the overall situation has actually worsened. It is disappointing that the lack of new and additional resources has not allowed the special concerns of the small island developing countries, as expressed in the Barbados Programme of Action, to be adequately addressed. We also regret that on the question of climatic change, no consensus on limits relating to the emission of greenhouse gases could be reached. We hope that the 12 Kyoto Conference on Climate Change will seriously address this issue and adopt meaningful measures to cut down the production of greenhouse gases. This year the General Assembly twice had to convene an emergency session to consider the extremely serious situation in the occupied Palestinian territories. Unilateral actions have negated the Oslo peace process. This impasse must now be broken. The recent diplomatic effort by the United States Secretary of State, Mrs. Madeleine Albright, seems to have averted a total deadlock. It is essential that the protagonists start talking to each other again. We view with serious concern the recent events in the Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros, which have resulted in the loss of human lives on the Island of Anjouan. We appeal to all the parties to the conflict to show restraint and to strive together towards a peaceful resolution of the crisis. We reaffirm our support to the United Nations stand on the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Comoros. We also welcome the constructive role played by the OAU and the League of Arab States in mediating between the various parties. We look forward to an early convening of the proposed international conference in Addis Ababa for the restoration of peace in the Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros. The situation in Burundi continues to preoccupy the international community. We support the Arusha peace initiative and reiterate our confidence in Mwalimu Nyerere’s role as facilitator in the process aimed at finding a lasting solution to the Burundi crisis. Later this year, we will kick off the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of one of the most important seminal documents adopted by this body — the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. During the year leading to this landmark event, Mauritius will work together with all Member States in promoting and strengthening the human rights situation everywhere, especially in the communities to which we are more closely associated through shared history and culture, namely the Commonwealth and the community of French-speaking countries. The promotion of human rights has been an article of faith for my Government. It is also an integral part of our foreign policy. In this respect we welcome the setting up of the Indian Ocean Institute of Human Rights and Democracy in Mauritius for the promotion of human rights and democracy. We pledge our full support to this Institute. Human rights for all, including women and children, and democratic values are matters of universal concern. As a multi-ethnic democracy, Mauritius has always raised its voice strongly against discrimination based on race, religion, culture and otherwise. In this regard, we note with satisfaction the recent developments in Fiji, which has finally decided to amend its Constitution in order to promote social harmony. We hope that the Government of Fiji will tackle the remaining issues standing in the way of the full enjoyment of fundamental rights and basic economic security by all segments of the population of Fiji. Mauritius reaffirms its full commitment to total disarmament and urges the world community to make every effort to rid itself of all weapons of mass destruction. It is in this spirit that Mauritius was among the first countries to ratify the Chemical Weapons Convention and the African Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone Treaty. We also reaffirm our support for the Ottawa initiative for a universal ban on anti-personnel landmines. It is regrettable that some major countries have decided to stay out of this process. We make a strong appeal to all Governments to become part of this unique and historic endeavour to eliminate landmines. Allow me to take this opportunity to reaffirm the fact that my country, Mauritius, a former French island, belongs to the great community of French-speaking countries. This sense of belonging culminated with the holding in 1993 of the sixth summit of the French- speaking countries, whose central theme was “Unity in diversity”, and which celebrated not only the universal values of the French-speaking countries but also made it possible for us to enshrine those same values in our society. Our people, who come from Africa, Asia and Europe, have deep roots in all the great cultures that form the French-speaking community. My compatriots can, in the course of one day, travel through all these cultures, one after another. It is for that reason that my country attaches such great importance to the Francophone plan of promoting diversity in a world that is increasingly unipolar and uniform. The upcoming summit in Hanoi will mark a very important stage in the future of this French-speaking community, providing it with the effective political means to make its voice heard on major international issues. This Assembly is by now well aware of the just and legitimate claim of Mauritius to the restoration of its territorial integrity through the return of the Chagos Archipelago, including Diego Garcia, to its national heritage. This Assembly should also note that this issue also has a tragic human dimension. Before Mauritius acceded to its independence, all of the inhabitants of the Chagos were forced to leave the land of their birth, where they had lived for several generations. The plight of those inhabitants must now be comprehensively addressed. Likewise, we are still awaiting the return of the island of Tromelin to Mauritius. As we pursue our efforts to recover these territories, we call upon the former colonial Powers to expedite this process through dialogue in the spirit of the friendship that characterizes our relationships. My Government looks forward to an early resolution of these disputes. ﻿First and foremost, Sir, I would like to echo the eminent speakers who have already addressed you from this rostrum in conveying the warm congratulations of the Central African delegation on your resounding election to the presidency of this, the fifty-second session of the General Assembly. The fact that you, Sir, have been chosen bears witness to the fact that your country, Ukraine, continues to play an important role on the world stage. Your wealth of experience and your abilities as an experienced diplomat augur well indeed for the success of our work, and I can also assure you that you can count on our support and our availability to assist you. I would also like to express our fullest satisfaction with the work of your predecessor, Mr. Razali Ismail, for the talent and skill with which he so wonderfully discharged his duties. And we assure His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, Secretary-General, whose election was only a just reward for his many years of service to the United Nations, of the renewed support of the people and Government of the Central African Republic. This session is being held at a delicate time in the history of our Organization, because it is faced with many different political, economic, social, cultural, legal and institutional problems which call for the appropriate reforms. To renew the United Nations, to turn it into a dynamic, democratic and effective organization, is a major challenge for this session, which the Secretary-General quite rightly described as the Reform Assembly. His brilliant report presented on 16 July 1997 is perfectly in tune with the Member States’ expectations, because it not only highlights the challenges facing us on the threshold of the first century of a new millennium, but it also, and above all, puts forward proposals for the longer term. The United Nations has a very important role to play in the areas of safeguarding and maintaining international peace and security and promoting social and economic development, democracy, human rights and justice. The Organization must be reformed and strengthening so as to better confront the new realities of today’s world. The Central African Republic will make its own modest contribution to this very important endeavour in close collaboration with the member States of the Organization of African Unity and the Non-Aligned Movement. As regards reforming the Security Council, the Central African Republic hopes that the Council will be expanded so as to provide equitable geographical representation. But what about the ever-widening gap between three quarters of humankind and the remainder? What about the proliferation of armed conflicts against a backdrop of intolerance, ethnic tension and deadly political confrontations that jeopardize international peace and security? Our Organization does not seem to be able to come to grips with these problems. And yet, a few years ago, after a series of major events radically transformed the old post-war order, we believed that the world was at last poised to move into a new era because of the ensuing clear-cut improvement in the international political climate and the new possibilities for cooperation that emerged. These were supposed to build confidence among nations and facilitate the quest for compromise on most of the questions of concern to the international community. Regrettably, we were overly optimistic. In reflecting on the sad realities of the day, I have in mind particularly the many human lives lost in vain in Algeria and the thousands of women and children forcibly torn from their homes and who, in the neighbouring Republic of the Congo, Burundi, Sierra Leone, Somalia and elsewhere, are still paying a heavy price for our imperfections, our contradictions and our intolerance. I believe that it is time to call upon the international community and our Organization — which in this alarmingly serious case seems not to be fulfilling its primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security — to tackle resolutely the internal conflicts that are unfolding within our own States. We must address these new conflicts, which entail serious violations of fundamental human rights and which we are ill-prepared to prevent and manage, because what is at stake is the very existence of our States, along with the balance and cohesiveness of the international community. The Central African Republic had cause to welcome the convening on 25 September last of the ministerial- level meeting of the member States of the Security Council devoted to the situation in Africa. The 4 recommendations emanating from those deliberations should be translated into reality. The delegation of the Central African Republic nonetheless welcomes the fact that significant progress towards peace has been achieved in Angola, Liberia and Haiti. But we continue to believe that a great deal of work remains to be done by the parties concerned to overcome the obstacles standing in the way of reconciliation and the restoration of peace in the Middle East, in Afghanistan and in Cyprus. Unlike in other regions of the world, where renewed economic growth is henceforth irreversible, Africa’s lack of good performance and its economic and social situation remain a cause for concern in this era of globalization. However, we are not underestimating the scope and the complexity of the crucial problems facing the international community at century’s end. To resolve these problems, a new type of cooperation is urgently needed so as not to exclude three quarters of humankind from the march towards progress and the common weal. Africa continues to experience immense economic difficulties because of its lack of control over certain external factors affecting its development, such as the collapse in the prices fetched by its commodities, its debt burden and the inadequacy of its capital flows, which have prevented it from achieving sustained economic growth and raising the living standards of its peoples. Worse yet is the case of the least developed countries, most of which are located on the African continent and whose situation remains abysmal notwithstanding the timid steps forward taken here and there. Though globalization has given rise to a new social contract, the principle of partnership and of shared responsibility between the least developed countries and the international community, with the goal of reversing socio-economic decline and speeding up the process of sustained growth and sustainable development, should guide both sides in their commitment. Now the question is how to become competitive without the support of official development assistance, which is continuing to decline. As we see it, this alarming situation calls for a pragmatic approach to cooperation between Africa and its partners, in particular the international financial and monetary institutions, which should not lose sight of these factors in determining modalities for cooperating with the continent and providing it access to global resources. We cannot overemphasize the urgent need for a greater sense of responsibility and for a far stronger commitment on the part of the entire international community vis-à-vis this continent, which is foundering economically and socially. It is this new awareness that will help Africa emerge at last from the chaos and anarchy that continue to engulf it. Without economic and social progress, there can be no talk of peace nor of democracy, because peace, democracy and development go hand in hand. This is especially true in the case of the Central African Republic, long known, owing to its long-standing commitment to peace, as the Switzerland of Africa. Its President, Ange-Félix Patassé, rose to the highest office in the land through free and transparent elections and daily preached peace and dialogue in the Central African subregion. Nonetheless, the world was recently witness to the sad spectacle of the Central African Republic’s being assailed by what have come to be known as the serial mutinies of Bangui, simply because of its inability to consolidate its still fledgling democratic experience through sustained economic and social development. The case of the Central African Republic casts light on the root causes of the wave of violence that is sweeping our subregion. The mutinies — which, tragically, lasted a full year and have thrown the entire country into near-civil war — occurred against the backdrop of a tribally motivated attempt at regaining power and as the result of manipulation by outside forces seeking to put an end to our democratic process. But none of this would have been possible had it not been for the very difficult economic and social situation of our country. The joint impact of a terrible legacy, the free-fall devaluation of the CFA franc and the chronically meagre revenues coming into the public treasury had for all practical purposes created a situation in which the State could no longer regularly pay its civil servants. The upshot of this crisis was all but catastrophic because the damage done by the tragic events of April, May and November 1996 gravely undermined our country’s potential for economic and social development. The technical committee set up to take stock of the damage concluded that for the first two cases of mutiny alone, it would cost some 41.9 billion CFA francs to make up for the losses experienced by the State, businesses, projects and individuals — not to mention the cost of the measures needed to help the many victims of that conflict. Beyond the necessary mobilization of all our compatriots — to whom His Excellency Mr. Ange-Félix 5 Patassé, President of the Republic, has issued a powerful call for the restoration of peace and national unity as a foundation for the genuine economic recovery of our country — it is only appropriate for our partners and the entire international community to stand with us and not against us. For it is the intention of the Central African Republic to continue and consolidate the democratic process to which it is resolutely committed. And beyond the praiseworthy support of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), my landlocked country must be given the wherewithal to continue to be — as we already are out of a sense of moral duty — a land of welcome and hospitality for Sudanese, Rwandan, Burundian, Congolese and other brothers and sisters who are paying a heavy price for our world’s intolerance, ethnic tensions and deadly political wrangling. The fact is that it is in adversity that one knows one’s true friends. Our own adversity has enabled the people of the Central African Republic to gauge the sympathy and solidarity they have enjoyed during the most trying times of their history. On behalf of His Excellency Mr. Ange-Félix Patassé, President of the Republic and Head of State and of Government, and of the people of the Central African Republic, I reiterate our thanks to the entire international community, and most particularly to France, the Federal Republic of Germany, the United States of America, Japan, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Gabon, Chad, Senegal, Togo, Mali, Burkina Faso, the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity and the European Union, for the support and invaluable assistance they are graciously according us. I take this opportunity also to convey particular thanks to all the States members of the Security Council, which on 6 August last unanimously adopted resolution 1125 (1997) on the Central African Republic. The immediate effect of that decision was to deter open attempts at destabilization, and to enable — as it continues to do — the Inter-African Mission to Monitor the Implementation of the Bangui Agreements (MISAB) better to ensure peace and security in the capital and the provinces of the Central African Republic. The peace is still fragile and precarious, and on behalf of the entire people of the Central African Republic we urgently appeal to the United Nations to enable the mandate of MISAB to be extended until the Central African Republic possesses a loyal national army that can guarantee the survival of our republican institutions. I wish the Assembly full success in its work on the basis of the principle of universality which is so dear to our Organization. 