Today, we look ahead to the new millennium. And at this last General Assembly of the twentieth century, we look back on a century that taught us much of what we need to know about the promise of tomorrow. We have learned a great deal over the last one hundred years: how to produce enough food for a growing world population; how human activity affects the environment; the mysteries of the human gene. An information revolution now holds the promise of universal access to knowledge. We have learned that open markets create more wealth, that open societies are more just. We have learned how to come together, through the United Nations and other institutions, to advance common interests and values. Yet for all our intellectual and material advances, the twentieth century has been deeply scarred by enduring human failures: by greed and lust for power, by hot-blooded hatreds and stone-cold hearts. At century’s end, modern developments magnify greatly the dangers of these timeless flaws. Powerful forces still resist reasonable efforts to put a human face on the global economy, to lift the poor, or to heal the earth’s environment. Primitive claims of racial, ethnic or religious superiority, when married to advanced weaponry and 2 terrorism, threaten to destroy the greatest potential for human development in history, even as they make a wasteland of the soul. Therefore, we look to the future with hope, but with unanswered questions. In the new millennium, will nations be divided by ethnic and religious conflicts? Will the nation-state itself be imperiled by them, or by terrorism? Or will we keep coming closer together instead, while enjoying the normal differences that make life more interesting? In the new century, how will patriotism be defined — as faith in a dream worth living, or as fear and loathing of other people’s dreams? Will we be free of the fear of weapons of mass destruction, or forced to teach our grandchildren how to survive a nuclear, chemical or biological attack? Will globalism bring shared prosperity, or will it make the desperate of the world even more desperate? Will we use science and technology to grow the economy and protect the environment, or put it all at risk in a world dominated by a struggle over natural resources? The truth is that the twentieth century’s amazing progress has not resolved these questions. But it has given us the tools to make the answers come out right — the knowledge, the resources, the institutions. Now, we must use them. If we do, we can make the millennium not just a changing of the digits, but a true changing of the times — a gateway to greater peace, prosperity and freedom. With that in mind, I offer three resolutions for the new millennium. First, let us resolve to wage an unrelenting battle against poverty and for shared prosperity so that no part of humanity is left behind in the global economy. Globalization is not inherently divisive. While infant mortality in developing countries has been cut nearly in half since 1970, life expectancy has increased by 10 years. According to the United Nations Human Development Index, which measures a decent standard of living, a good education, a long and healthy life, the gap between rich and poor countries on this measure has actually declined. Open trade and new technologies have been engines of this progress; they have helped hundreds of millions to see their prospects rise by marketing the fruits of their labor and creativity abroad. With proper investments in education, developing countries should be able to keep their best and brightest talent at home and to gain access to global markets for goods and services and capital. But this promising future is far from inevitable. We are still squandering the potential of far too many. As many as 1.3 billion people still live on less than a dollar a day. More than half the population of many countries has no access to safe water. A person in South Asia is 700 times less likely to use the Internet than someone in the United States. Forty million people a year still die of hunger, almost as many as the total number killed in World War II. We must refuse to accept a future in which one part of humanity lives on the cutting edge of a new economy, while the other lives at the knife edge of survival. What must we do? We can start by remembering that open markets advance the blessings and breakthroughs we want to spread. That is why we in the United States have worked to keep our markets open during the recent global financial crisis, though it has brought us record trade deficits. It is why we want to launch a new global trade round when the World Trade Organization meets in Seattle this fall. It is why we are working to build a trading system that strengthens the well-being of workers and consumers, protects the environment and makes competition a race to the top, not the bottom. It is why I am proud we have come together at the International Labour Organization to ban abusive child labour everywhere in the world. We do not face a choice between trade and aid, but instead the challenge to make both work for people who need them. Aid should focus on what is known to work: credit for poor people starting businesses, keeping girls in school, meeting the needs of mothers and children. Development aid should be used for development, not to buy influence or finance donors’ exports. It should go where Governments invest in their people and answer to their concerns. We should also come to the aid of countries struggling to rise but held down by the burden of debt. The G-7 nations have adopted a plan to reduce by up to 70 per cent the outstanding debt of the world’s poorest countries, freeing resources for education, health and growth. All of us, developed and developing countries alike, should take action now to halt global climate change. What has that to do with fighting poverty? A great deal. The most vulnerable members of the human family will be hurt first and hurt most if rising temperatures devastate agriculture, accelerate the spread of disease in tropical countries and flood island nations. 3 Does this mean developing countries must sacrifice growth to protect the environment? Absolutely not. Throughout history, a key to human progress has been willingness to abandon big ideas that are no longer true. One big idea that is no longer true is that the only way to build a modern economy is to use energy as we did in the industrial age. The challenge and opportunity for developing countries today is to skip the costs of the industrial age by using technologies that improve the economy and the environment at the same time. Finally, to win the fight against poverty, we must improve health care for all people. Over the next 10 years in Africa, AIDS is expected to kill more people and orphan more children than all the wars of the twentieth century combined. Each year diseases such as malaria, tuberculosis and pneumonia leave millions of children without parents and millions of parents without children. Yet for all these diseases, vaccine research is advancing too slowly, in part because the potential customers are too poor. Only 2 per cent of all global biomedical research is devoted to the major killers in the developing world. No country can break poverty’s bonds if its people are disabled by disease and its Government overwhelmed by the needs of the ill. With United Nations leadership, we have come close to eradicating polio, once the scourge of children everywhere. We are down to 5,000 reported cases worldwide. I have asked our Congress to fund a major increase to finish the job, and I ask other nations to follow suit. We have begun a comprehensive battle against the global AIDS epidemic. This year I am seeking another $100 million for prevention, counselling and care in Africa. I want to do more to get to those who need them most new drugs that prevent transmission from mothers to newborns. And today I commit the United States to a concerted effort to accelerate the development and delivery of vaccines for malaria, tuberculosis, AIDS and other diseases that disproportionately affect the developing world. Many approaches have been proposed, from tax credits to special funds for the purchase of these vaccines. To tackle these issues, I will ask public-health experts, the chief executive officers of our pharmaceutical companies, foundation representatives and members of Congress to join me at a special White House meeting and to strengthen incentives for research and development, working with, not against, the private sector to meet our common goal. The second resolution I hope we will make today is to strengthen the capacity of the international community to prevent and whenever possible to stop outbreaks of mass killing and displacement. This requires, as we all know, shared responsibility, like the one West African nations accepted when they acted to restore peace in Sierra Leone; the one 19 democracies in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) embraced to stop ethnic cleansing in Bosnia and in Kosovo; the one that Asian and Pacific nations have now assumed in East Timor, with the strong support of the entire United Nations, including the United States. Secretary-General Annan spoke for all of us during the Kosovo conflict, and more recently in regard to East Timor, when he said that ethnic cleansers and mass murderers can find no refuge in the United Nations, no source of comfort or justification in its Charter. We must do more to make these words real. Of course, we must approach this challenge with some considerable degree of humility. It is easy to say “never again”, but much harder to make it so. Promising too much can be as cruel as caring too little. But difficulties, dangers and costs are not an argument for doing nothing. When we are faced with deliberate, organized campaigns to murder whole peoples or expel them from their land, the care of victims is important but not enough. We should work to end the violence. Our response in every case cannot and should not be the same. Sometimes collective military force is both appropriate and feasible. Sometimes concerted economic and political pressure combined with diplomacy is a better answer, as it was in making possible the introduction of forces to East Timor. Of course, the way the international community responds will depend on the capacity of countries to act and on their perception of their national interests. NATO acted in Kosovo, for example, to stop a vicious campaign of ethnic cleansing in a place where we had important interests at stake and the ability to act collectively. The same considerations brought Nigerian troops and their partners to Sierra Leone and Australians and others to East Timor. That is proper — so long as we work together, support each other and do not abdicate our collective responsibility. I know that some are troubled that the United States and others cannot respond to every humanitarian catastrophe in the world. We cannot do everything, everywhere. But simply because we have different interests in different parts of the world does not mean we can be indifferent to the destruction of innocents in any part of the world. That is why we have supported the efforts of Africans to resolve the deadly conflicts that 4 have raged through parts of their continent. It is why we are working with friends in Africa to build the African Crisis Response Initiative, which has trained more than 4,000 peacekeepers from six countries. It is why we are helping establish an international coalition against genocide to bring nations together to stop the flow of money and arms to those who commit crimes against humanity. There is also a critical need for countries emerging from conflict to build police institutions accountable to people and the law, often with the help of civilian police from other nations. We need international forces with the training to fill the gap between local police and military peacekeepers, as French, Argentine, Italian and other military police have done in Haiti and Bosnia. We will work with our partners and the United Nations to continue to ensure that such forces can deploy when they are needed. What is the role of the United Nations of in preventing mass slaughter and dislocation? Very large. Even in Kosovo, NATO’s actions followed a clear consensus, expressed in several Security Council resolutions, that the atrocities committed by Serb forces were unacceptable and that the international community had a compelling interest in seeing them end. Had we chosen to do nothing in the face of this brutality, I do not believe we would have strengthened the United Nations. Instead we would have risked discrediting everything it stands for. By acting as we did, we helped to vindicate the principles and purposes of the United Nations Charter to give the United Nations the opportunity it now has to play the central role in shaping Kosovo’s future. In the real world, principles often collide and tough choices must be made. The outcome in Kosovo is hopeful. Finally, as we enter this new era, let our third resolution be to protect our children against the possibility that nuclear, chemical and biological weapons will ever be used again. The last millennium has seen constant advances in the destructive power of weaponry. In the coming millennium, this trend can continue or, if we choose, we can reverse it with global standards universally respected. We have made more progress than many realize. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Ukraine courageously chose to give up their nuclear weapons. America and Russia have moved forward with substantial arms reductions. President Yeltsin and I agreed in June, even as we await Russian ratification of START II, to begin talks on a START III treaty that will cut our cold- war arsenals by 80 per cent from their height. Brazil has joined the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), capping a process that has almost totally eliminated the threat of nuclear proliferation in Latin America. We have banned chemical weapons from the Earth, though we must implement that commitment fully and gain universal coverage. One hundred and fifty-two nations have signed the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and, while India and Pakistan did test nuclear weapons last year, the international reaction proved that the global consensus against proliferation is very strong. We need to bolster the standards to reinforce that consensus. We must reaffirm our commitment to the NPT, strengthen the Biological Weapons Convention and make fast progress on a treaty to ban production of fissile materials. To keep existing stocks from the wrong hands, we should strengthen the Convention on Physical Protection of Nuclear Materials. And today, again I ask our Congress to approve the Comprehensive Nuclear- Test-Ban Treaty. We must stop the spread of nuclear weapons, materials and expertise at the source. Since 1992, we have worked with Russia and the other nations of the former Soviet Union to do that. We are expanding that effort because challenges remain, but thus far we can say that the nightmare scenario of deadly weapons flowing unchecked across borders and of scientists selling their services en masse to the highest bidder has been avoided. Now, we must work to deny weapons of mass destruction to those who would use them. For almost a decade, nations have stood together to keep the Iraqi regime from threatening its people and the world with such weapons. Despite all the obstacles Saddam Hussein has placed in our path, we must continue to ease the suffering of the people of Iraq. At the same time, we cannot allow the Government of Iraq to flout 40 — and I say 40 — successive United Nations Security Council resolutions and to rebuild his arsenal. Just as important is the challenge of keeping deadly weapons away from terrorist groups. They may have weaker capabilities than States, but they have fewer compunctions about using such weapons. The possibility that terrorists will threaten us with weapons of mass destruction can be met with neither panic nor complacency. It requires serious, deliberate, disciplined concern and effective cooperation from all of us. There are many other challenges. Today I have spoken about just three: the need to do something about 5 the world’s poor and to put a human face on the global economy; the need to do more to prevent killing and dislocation of innocents; the need to do more to ensure that weapons of mass destruction will never be used on our children. I believe they are the most important. In meeting them, the United Nations is indispensable. It is precisely because we are committed to the United Nations that we have worked hard to support the effective management of this body. But the United States also has a responsibility to equip the United Nations with the resources it needs to be effective. As I think most Members know, I have strongly supported the United States meeting all its financial obligations to the United Nations and I will continue to do so. We will do our very best to succeed this year. When the cold war ended, the United States could have chosen to turn away from the opportunities and dangers of the world. Instead, we have tried to be engaged, involved and active. We know this moment of unique prosperity and power for the United States is a source of concern to many. I can only answer by saying this: In the seven years that I have been privileged to come here to speak to this body, America has tried to be a force for peace. We believe we are better off when nations resolve their differences by force of argument rather than force of arms. We have sought to help former adversaries like Russia and China become prosperous, stable members of the world community because we feel far more threatened by the potential weakness of the world’s leading nations than by their strength. Instead of imposing our values on others, we have sought to promote a system of government — democracy — that empowers people to choose their own destinies according to their own values and aspirations. We have sought to keep our markets open because we believe a strong world economy benefits our own workers and businesses, as well as the people of the world who are selling to us. I hope that we have been and will continue to be good partners with the rest in the new millennium. Not long ago, I went to a refugee camp in Macedonia. The people I met there, children and adults alike, had suffered horrible, horrible abuses, but they had never given up hope because they believed that there is an international community that stands for their dignity and their freedom. I want to make sure that, 20 or 50 or 100 years from now, people everywhere will still believe that about our United Nations. So let us resolve, in the bright dawn of the new millennium, to bring in an era in which our desire to create will overwhelm our capacity to destroy. If we do that, then, through the United Nations and far-sighted leaders, humanity finally can live up to its name.  Allow me first of all to congratulate Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Namibia, for having been elected President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. At the same time, I would like to express my appreciation of and respect for the President of the General Assembly at its fifty-third session, Mr. Didier Opertti, for the results achieved during his presidency. Let me also express my deep respect for Secretary- General Kofi Annan, for his excellent leadership of the Organization. I wish to assure him that the Republic of Macedonia is ready to continue to closely cooperate with him. The Republic of Macedonia welcomes the admission of the new Members — the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga — and wishes them success in their contribution to United Nations activities, and at the same time expresses its 41 readiness to establish diplomatic relations with them. Also, I hope that we shall continue the process of establishing diplomatic relations between the Republic of Macedonia — of course, using the constitutional name — and Member States with which we have not yet done so. On this occasion, I would like to express my deepest condolences to the people of Taiwan on the earthquake that hit the Republic of China on Taiwan, with which the Republic of Macedonia has recently established diplomatic relations. It is with regret that we have to note that one of the main characteristics of the past year was flagrant and highly risky disrespect for the fundamental values of democratic society. In addition to the major tragedies the world was faced with, we witnessed a growing trend of armed conflicts and internal and external tensions. Concerning the area surrounding the Republic of Macedonia, I would focus on the huge humanitarian crisis that took place in South- Eastern Europe and the heavy consequences which jeopardized the stability and security of the Balkans and beyond in Europe. The Kosovo crisis had particularly adverse effects on my country. We had to cope with an enormous influx of refugees, numbering more than 360,000, or 18 per cent of the total population. The Republic of Macedonia entered a rather difficult economic, social and political situation that tended to destabilize it, particularly against the background that the international community reacted with insufficient speed and agility. The damage which the Macedonian economy suffered is enormous, amounting to approximately $660 million. A large number of workers were dismissed as a result of lost markets and increased transportation costs. The unemployment rate reached 40 per cent. All of this has negatively affected the already poor economic and social situation. In these circumstances, the citizens of the Republic of Macedonia have demonstrated great humaneness towards the refugees, tolerance and solidarity, but also restraint in the conditions of enormous social, political and economic pressure they were exposed to and whose consequences could have been more dramatic. Finally, we should not forget that there are still 30,000 refugees in the Republic of Macedonia. I urge the Assembly to continue the joint efforts for their safe return to their homes. At the same time, the peace forces of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) for Kosovo were deployed in the Republic of Macedonia in support of the international efforts for a political resolution of the crisis, as were a large number of international governmental and non-governmental organizations. Macedonia has managed to overcome these hardships, but the consequences are still being felt in the national economy. Financial assistance and support from the international community are indispensable for the recovery of the national economy. It is beyond doubt that compensation for the damage we suffered by making our national capacities available for the resolution of the Kosovo crisis should be an obligation of the international community. The Macedonian Government highly appreciates the assistance provided by the international community thus far through certain financial institutions or on a bilateral basis. The assistance should continue, which is to say, we expect States to fully carry out the commitments they have undertaken. This is the right moment to write off parts of our external debts as a recognition of the efforts we are making to overcome the crisis. Today, the only thing that the Republic of Macedonia requests is the fulfilment of the promises made by the international community during the crisis. Even prior to the outbreak of the crisis and the adoption of Security Council resolution 1244 (1999), my country had consistently supported a peaceful and political solution to the Kosovo crisis that would include substantial autonomy within the framework of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia; respect for the human rights of all living in Kosovo; respect for the inviolability of existing borders; the cessation of hostilities and of repression; the deployment of peace forces; the safe and free return of refugees; the demilitarization of the Kosovo Liberation Army (KLA) and other paramilitary forces; and the economic reconstruction of Kosovo and the region. I would like to take this opportunity to commend the efforts made fully to implement Security Council resolution 1244 (1999). The Republic of Macedonia, in this respect, will continue to support the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK), the European Union, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Council of Europe and all other international governmental and non-governmental organizations. In this context, I would like to recall that on many occasions the Macedonian Government has demonstrated its readiness closely to cooperate with the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, with his Special 42 Representative, Mr. Kouchner, and with UNMIK, and that it has offered its good offices. The Republic of Macedonia strongly supports the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe as one of the most important adopted documents for the wider region and for Europe. Furthermore, it is prepared to take an active part in its implementation and to contribute to the reconstruction and stabilization of the region and its speedy integration into European structures. The Stability Pact, through its three pillars, or “working tables”, and through the relevant international global and regional institutions, is expected to contribute to a lasting stabilization of the region and to its final integration into European and Euro-Atlantic structures. To this effect, I would like to call upon all of the parties to this extremely important document to mutually reinforce their activities and to enhance their coordination. I would here like to underscore the strong interest of the Republic of Macedonia in the prompt implementation of the second pillar for economic development and reconstruction. The most important issue linked with its unimpeded functioning and the realization of the desired results — greater inclusion of the Balkans in European economic, political and democratic trends — is the setting up of lasting mechanisms for the necessary fund-raising and the securing of funds to this end. Many United Nations programmes and activities could be used for this purpose. The Republic of Macedonia is interested in seeing the United Nations play a role in this sphere. The Republic of Macedonia will propose a pertinent draft resolution at this session of the General Assembly that stresses the importance of the prompt consolidation and development of South-Eastern Europe, the importance of the Stability Pact and the need for the full implementation of Security Council resolution 1244 (1999). We are convinced that the draft will be supported by all States Members of the United Nations. Let us hope that this will be the last crisis in the Balkans or South-Eastern Europe. But to prevent any recurrence of this kind of situation, we will have to defend more successfully democratic principles and values and develop long-term preventive strategies. I am convinced that the beginning of the next millennium will mark a new era in the history of this area, which has been overburdened with conflicts and therefore needs to focus primarily on its own development and prosperity. In the long run, regional stability can be provided by economic development, democracy, respect of human rights and the rights of national minorities, and bilateral and regional cooperation. However, the best way to guarantee the security of the region and transform it into an area of democracy, development, stability and cooperation is for the countries of the region to join the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and become fully fledged members. The Republic of Macedonia is among the countries most affected by the crisis — economically, socially and politically. This has hampered our efforts to build a society that meets the expectations of our people. Despite the major challenges it has confronted in the past, my country has managed to implement and advance the strategic commitments set out in its foreign policy: integration in the European Union, inclusion in Euro-Atlantic security structures and development of good-neighbourliness. The success of that policy is reflected in the fact that the Republic of Macedonia was able to stay out of the four armed conflicts which have taken place in the last decade on the territory of the former Yugoslavia. For the first time in the history of the Republic of Macedonia as an independent country, we have been faced with a war on our borders. In such circumstances, the contribution of the peaceful and constructive Macedonian policy to conflict resolution is highly significant. The Republic of Macedonia is fully committed to carrying out the reforms that have been initiated, based on European standards, in the political, economic and democracy fields, with maximum respect for human rights, including minority rights. That commitment by the Macedonian Government and the results of the reforms have been commended by the international community. That is precisely why the European Union has decided that the Republic of Macedonia should be the first partner in the commencement of negotiations for the conclusion of the Stability and Association Agreement. The Republic of Macedonia has a long-term commitment to the continuing improvement of its relations with all of its neighbours. The advancement and development of these relations, as well as of bilateral cooperation with all of its neighbours, is evidenced by intensive cooperation in the framework of a number of regional initiatives. Two trilateral meetings have taken place among the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of Macedonia, Albania, Bulgaria and Greece, the aim of 43 which was to coordinate and promote activities aimed at a more successful implementation of the Stability Pact. I would like to emphasize that the policy of the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, elected less than a year ago, is aimed in particular at improving, as soon as possible, the situation in the region. To this effect, many practical steps have been taken, which to our mutual satisfaction are yielding results. As we approach the new millennium, the last session of the General Assembly for this century is undoubtedly the forum best suited to evaluating what has been achieved in the area of the promotion and protection of human rights and freedoms. Over the last 50 years, impressive progress has been made in international humanitarian law. Today, we are proud to note that the United Nations, having adopted the fundamental Universal Declaration of Human Rights, has managed to affirm the international consensus on the basic postulates of human dignity and to promote them as a basic standard and objective to be attained by all individuals and nations. Of no less importance is the promotion and strengthening of all United Nations human rights bodies engaged in the protection and promotion of human rights, including minority rights. In this regard, the Republic of Macedonia supports the reform of the mechanisms and functioning of the United Nations bodies in this area. This year we mark the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Although this Convention has been ratified by almost all States, its genuine implementation is still a desired aim. A large number of children are still victims of disrespect for their fundamental rights. We therefore fully and firmly support the efforts made at this year's session of the Commission on Human Rights to undertake concrete measures for the protection of the rights of the child, the aim of which is to promote the next century as the century of the universal protection of the rights of the child. The role and efforts of the international community in the full implementation of currently accepted standards and principles are important, but the primary role and responsibility lies with the States themselves. As is evident from the democratic development of my country, the Republic of Macedonia completely associates itself with the endeavours of the international community for the observance and promotion of human rights. In the twenty-first century the maintenance of international peace and security all over the world should be the priority aim of our Organization. As the Secretary- General stated in his report, the world, and our Organization in particular, will be faced with the need to be fully involved in the prevention and peaceful resolution of conflicts and with the development of the affected States. The elimination of poverty and reducing the gap between the developed and developing countries should be our priorities, as my colleagues have already said. In the next century the Republic of Macedonia would like to see an improvement in economic development and international economic cooperation, as well as an enhancement of efforts being made within the disarmament process and greater support for them. We may note that the global community has achieved significant improvements with regard to living standards and the reduction of poverty. The global economy is showing modest but constant growth of 2 per cent annually, while the volume of trade is continuing to increase. However, it seems that, irrespective of the important accomplishments, the world community is confronted with a series of alarming problems that must be resolved. Increased world poverty and unemployment are key problems, which should be the main preoccupation of the international community, the aim being to eliminate them. Half the population of the world lives on less than $3 per capita per day, while the unemployment rate is increasing continuously; the international community has to face the challenge of overcoming that situation. Decisions of the international community regarding international economic policies are most frequently made in the United Nations framework. The Governments of the developed countries have a leading role to play and the primary responsibility in this domain. The indebtedness of the developing countries and countries in transition is mainly a result of inappropriate political circumstances, in the form of armed conflicts; different types of embargoes and factors make it impossible for them to market their goods; and natural disasters. Writing off the debts, or part of the debts, of the countries affected by objective external factors would have a very positive impact on diminishing global poverty and unemployment and on economic development. Only the economically developed and independent State can be truly politically independent and sovereign and have a role to play in the international community. 44 Globalization of the world economy and liberalization of world trade are necessary preconditions for the improvement of living standards and the reduction of existing differences in countries' development relative to global development. The role of the United Nations in this area is of great importance. The increased globalization and liberalization of the world economy should be accompanied by a lowering of existing barriers and by facilitating the free transfer of goods and services and of the work force. This would create a unified world economy in its true meaning. In the next century more attention will be placed on the observance of the United Nations Charter. In the interests of the maintenance of international peace and collective security, it is extremely important that Security Council decisions be made on behalf of all the Member States of our Organization, without its being possible for them to abuse the right of veto. The contribution of the Republic of Macedonia to the promotion of peace and security is well known, and this was confirmed by the deployment on its territory of the United Nations Preventive Deployment Force (UNPREDEP), which was unfortunately terminated at the moment when the region may have been most in need of it. The importance of the leading role played by this single universal Organization is reflected in its skill in adapting to real situations and practical problems. I am deeply convinced that the new challenges are already reflected in the manner of operation of our Organization and in its structure. I would like to salute the firm determination to continue to implement United Nations reforms, which have already produced results, as stated in the Secretary-General's report. The Republic of Macedonia is of the opinion that the reform of the United Nations system will be successful only if reform of the Security Council is followed by reform of the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council. We expect the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly to successfully conclude preparations for the organization of the Millennium Assembly in the year 2000. In this context, we are anticipating with great interest the Secretary-General's report. At the same time, we join the appeal for all Member States to be represented by heads of State or Government at that event. United Nations Member States must constantly contribute to the strengthening of the basic democratic values of peace, security, stability, social and economic development, respect for international law and respect for human and minority rights. The United Nations is the true place for the improvement of these basic values. The resolution of each country to persist in that way is of crucial importance in determining whether we will jointly manage to fully implement these commitments and enjoy the fruits of development. I would like to assure the Assembly that the Republic of Macedonia has already embarked on that road and will continue to make its contribution to the full implementation of those values.  It is just over half a century since the then British Prime Minister, Clement Attlee, presented the Charter of the United Nations to our Parliament. He told our Parliament: “We are seeking not merely good relations between nations but between the human beings within nations”. The concept he saw expressed in the Charter of the United Nations was revolutionary. That responsibility for the security, freedom and development of people does not belong solely to each State acting individually, but to all nations of the world acting as a united body. Over the past 50 years, the United Nations has done much to discharge that responsibility. The United Nations and its agencies have led programmes around the world that have released the potential of individual human beings on every continent. We have helped double the literacy rate among women in developing countries. We have helped immunize 80 per cent of the world's children against some of the most lethal diseases. We have established the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as the benchmark for freedom for individuals. And this General Assembly played a leading role in insisting on equal democratic rights, regardless of race, and in forcing an end to apartheid. Today the United Nations provides shelter and sanctuary to refugees in every corner of the world. As we meet this week, United Nations agencies provide homes, food, welfare, health and education to 19 million refugees — more than the population of most Member States. We should take pride in these achievements, because it will help give us the confidence to tackle the challenges that remain. But we must also be frank about where we have failed. We have failed to deliver peace to many of the peoples of the world. We have not realized the vision of our founders, of nations and peoples within them living in peace with each other. We have averted world war. But we have not averted a world with too much war. That is why I want to support the excellent opening address by our Secretary-General by focusing my remarks also on what we must do if we are to replace failure to halt war with success in preventing conflict. The harrowing scenes we have witnessed this past year from Kosovo, from Sierra Leone, from East Timor and too many other places underline the urgency of improving our performance in preventing conflicts and also in stopping them once they have started. I propose five priority areas for action. First, we must tackle the root causes of conflict, starting with the poverty that breeds it. War is becoming a poor man's burden. In the modern world, wealthy nations no longer experience the trauma of conflict on their soil. The soundest basis for peace is prosperity, and the best way we can prevent conflict is by promoting sustainable development. The forthcoming Millennium Assembly must make a reality of the commitment to halving the proportion of people in extreme poverty and reducing the number of nations in heavy debt. Secondly, we must promote human rights and good governance. Development of a nation will be more rapid where people have the right to develop their full potential. Conflict is more likely where governments rule without the consent of their people. Thirdly, we must curb the supply of weapons that fuel conflict. For decades, the United Nations, rightly, has focused on halting the spread of weapons of mass destruction. Yet in truth, in those same decades, the weapons that have killed masses in conflicts have been the most common of small arms. In Friday's debate in the Security Council, we will have the opportunity to take forward action to halt the illegal trade in small arms, to promote regional moratoriums on small arms and to limit arsenals of military firearms to legitimate Government agencies. 34 Fourthly, we must stop the illegal trade in diamonds and other precious commodities which pay for the small arms — and all too often the mercenaries — which sustain conflict. The markets for these commodities, especially the market in diamonds, are small and tightly located in a few centres. We must encourage cooperation with those who manage those markets to cut off the supply of funds to those who are promoting conflict. Lastly, I strongly endorse the view expressed by our Secretary-General this morning that we must counter the culture of impunity. Those who break international humanitarian law, from Kosovo to East Timor, must know that they will be held to account by the international community. The international criminal tribunals have shown what can be done. We must build on their work by getting a permanent international criminal court up and running with all speed. But we will not always succeed in preventing conflict. We need, therefore, to be better equipped to restore peace when war breaks out. As my Prime Minister, Tony Blair, said in Chicago earlier this year, working out the conditions and identifying the circumstances when it is right in the modern world to intervene is the most pressing problem in foreign policy today. His speech demonstrated that Britain is anxious to play its full part in that debate. Our starting point is that our common interest in preserving the world from major conflict is greater than our individual interests as nations. Globalization is the long and rather ugly term which is used to describe how in today’s world we are interdependent with each other rather than independent of each other. We are bound together by our strengthening links in trade and investment, in travel and communication. What happens in one country can have a direct impact on the prosperity and the security — even the climate — of countries on the other side of the world. And we are also bound together by the consequences of conflict. In Britain 90 per cent of the heroin on the streets of our big cities is grown in Afghanistan under cover of the generation-long conflict in that land. In central Africa, the upheavals of population sparked by the mass genocide in Rwanda have destabilized the region and caught up half a dozen countries in the conflicts that have ensued. Across the countries of Europe there are now several hundred thousands of citizens of the former Yugoslavia who have fled to seek sanctuary from the repeated conflicts there. Just as few nations can stand alone in the modern world, there are now few major conflicts which remain only an internal matter with no impact on the rest of the world. If we are to respond adequately when conflict breaks out, then the United Nations needs to develop three strengths — credibility, consensus and capacity. If the United Nations is to have the credibility to press the parties to a conflict to a solution, it must be more representative of the modern world. A small increase in the size of the Security Council would be a modest price to pay for the big increase in its credibility which would come from a more representative permanent membership. But greater credibility would be pointless without consensus on when the authority of the United Nations should be invoked. Intervention must always be a last resort. We can all agree that the first responsibility for reconciling internal conflict rests with the State in which that conflict arises. But we also have a shared responsibility to act when we are confronted with genocide, mass displacement of people or major breaches of humanitarian law. To know that such atrocities are being committed and not to act against them is to make us complicit in them. And to be passive in the face of such events is to make it more likely that they will be repeated. Credibility, though, also requires us to demonstrate not just the consensus, but also the capacity, to act. We often hear demands that the United Nations should do something. Let us be honest — the United Nations is nothing more than the aggregate of its Member States. The United Nations cannot do something except when we, its Member States, are prepared to provide the means. We need to ensure that the United Nations has a sound financial base, which requires all of us to meet our assessed contributions in full, on time. But we must also ensure that when peacekeeping forces are required, they are made available. Britain has signed a standby agreement earmarking forces we are prepared in principle to provide for emergency peacekeeping work. Such agreements enable the United Nations to plan for emergencies with greater confidence that we can rapidly put in the field the right skills, with the necessary equipment. A score of other Member States have signed similar agreements. The more of us that do so, the greater 35 will be the capacity of the United Nations in brokering a basis for peacekeeping deployment. But in Kosovo we discovered that it was less difficult to put together an armed force to end the military violence than to assemble a United Nations police force to keep civil order. Today, therefore, I can announce that Britain will follow up our standby agreement with the United Nations on troops with a similar agreement increasing the number of United Kingdom police officers available for United Nations troops. This will include a commitment to a rapid response squad, ready for deployment at short notice when it is urgently needed. We shall also be establishing with the United Nations a flagship training course in Britain to train police from around the world to play their part in our joint missions. I am conscious that the agenda I have set out is an ambitious one. But, in all humility, I have to say that it is less ambitious than the visionary programme set out half a century ago by the founders of the United Nations. As our Secretary-General said earlier this year, unless we can unite around the aim of confronting massive human rights violations, against crimes against humanity, then we will betray the very ideals of our founders. In the modern world in which we live — the modern world of satellite communications — we know instantly when such violations are taking place. We have the resources and the mobility to move our assets quickly in an emergency. Modern technology has made all of us each other’s neighbours. We now need to match that technology with an international doctrine that also reflects the modern world. And it must be founded on the clear principle that the only war we agree to wage is one in which our nations are united in combating conflict. May I begin by congratulating the President on his election. I am confident that the skills and vast experience he has acquired throughout his distinguished diplomatic career will provide the guidance we need to guarantee the successful outcome of the session. I must also recall the valuable contribution of his predecessor, Mr. Opertti, to the work of the last session of the General Assembly. I would like to take this opportunity to extend my warm welcome and congratulations to the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga on their admission to the United Nations. As the twentieth century comes to an end, it is evident that all countries in the world — advanced, developing or transitional — will be substantially affected by globalization. Further specialization and the widening of markets through trade, the larger division of labour and a more efficient and diversified allocation of financial resources should increase overall productivity and raise living standards. However, no country will benefit from this trend spontaneously and automatically. The major tasks which Governments face today are development and the pursuit of sound policies and appropriate structural adjustments to meet the challenges and take advantage of the opportunities that globalization offers. While sound domestic economic planning and reforms are critical to meeting the challenges of globalization, regional cooperation and integration processes are essential to maximizing the emerging benefits and opportunities. We, as a country and the region as a whole, are trying to adjust to the multiple stresses of post-Soviet economic, cultural and political transformations. Clearly these problems can stress relations as much within States as between them. Armenia does not see either itself or the region as being permanently condemned to marginalization; rather, it believes that close cooperation in the region, whether political, economic or security based, will help bring lasting stability and prosperity based on a sense of solid and shared emergent values. Cooperation within the framework of regional economic initiatives, such as the Interstate Oil and Gas Transport to Europe (INOGATE) programme and the Transport Corridor: Europe-Caucusus-Asia (TRACECA) project, is essential. Armenia is sincerely open to such cooperation, although we have to state with regret that the blockades imposed on Armenia by Turkey and Azerbaijan are a serious obstacle to such cooperation. It is obvious that the region's high potential cannot be fully utilized if attempts are made to isolate one of its constituents. Such attempts are doomed to failure and will adversely affect all concerned in the region. The Black Sea Economic Cooperation (BSEC) is another mechanism that could contribute to the region's economic development. The activities of the recently 19 established Black Sea Trade and Development Bank will considerably contribute to carrying out the projects elaborated by the member States of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation. In this regard, Armenia fully supports the granting of observer status in the General Assembly to the BSEC. A young republic in transition from a long nightmare of totalitarian, single-party State to the emergence of a democratic, free-market, open society, Armenia must simultaneously consolidate its State structures, move its economy forward and resolve the Nagorny Karabakh conflict. It must do all three at the same time, for they are in fact interdependent. First and foremost, Armenia must ensure that the Armenian population of Nagorny Karabakh continues to enjoy its security within its own lands. Our recent memories of vulnerability and insecurity make it impossible for any Armenian anywhere to accept anything less than the inalienable right of the people of Nagorny Karabakh not to be subjugated, not to be dominated and not to be subordinate. Armenia understands this and is actively engaged in pursuing in every possible forum a resolution of the conflict with Azerbaijan that would achieve peace without endangering the hard-won and legitimate rights of our own people to live in secure dignity and freedom. Since 1992 the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) has played a key role in the process of finding a peaceful solution to the conflict in Nagorny Karabakh. It has been actively involved, through the various permutations of the Minsk process, to define the elements for a durable peace and stability in the region of the Transcaucasus. Armenia is committed to pursuing every possible and credible attempt to resolve the conflicts that linger in the region. It is committed to exploring every avenue for peaceful relations with all its neighbours, relations based on mutual respect and recognition. The OSCE, through the Co-Chairmen of the Minsk Group, is trying to reconcile seemingly incompatible principles. We have always remained opposed to one-sided orthodoxy and have always advocated a more flexible approach. It is therefore with interest that Armenia and Nagorny Karabakh received the Minsk Group Co-Chairmen's draft proposal during their latest visit to the region. My Government, as well as the authorities of Nagorny Karabakh, considered this formulation by the Co-Chairmen a more realistic effort in trying to address the thorny issue of the status of Nagorny Karabakh with minimal prejudice to either of the competing claims. Indeed, we must distinguish between stability and the forced maintenance of the status quo. Conflating the two is neither wise nor practicable in the long run. A status quo in political life is never inherently permanent, and a viable policy of stability requires a mechanism to pursue an evolutionary, dynamic process of managing change. We have new and dynamic challenges to the status quo; we should not be shy in addressing these challenges creatively and objectively to conceive more adaptive answers rather than falling back into a comfortable, yet dangerously elusive, status quo. As Armenia actively defends and pursues the Nagorny Karabakh people's right to self-determination through peaceful means, we also sympathize with and support all other just self-determination claims in other parts of the globe. Armenia applauded the Indonesian Government's courage when it announced the conduct of the referendum on East Timor's independence. Today we are concerned with the latest developments, but we hope that the results of the popular consultation will be fully respected. We also commend the role that the United Nations has played in organizing and supervising the popular consultation. Armenia also welcomes the most recent positive developments in the Middle East peace process. We hope that the Palestinian people's right to self-determination will be fully realized, thus bringing lasting peace and stability to the Middle East. The last decade of the twentieth century has been marked by serious achievements in the sphere of disarmament and global and regional arms control, and more remains to be done. At the global level, that would mean reviewing the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) in the year 2000; completing the work of the Biological Weapons Convention Ad Hoc Group on a compliance and verification protocol; completely eliminating existing stocks of chemical weapons and ensuring the universality of the Chemical Weapons Convention regime. Similarly, at the regional level, we attach great importance to the successful conclusion of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe (CFE) adaptation process, which will be signed by heads of States at the OSCE summit this November. We are convinced that the adapted Treaty will significantly contribute to the strengthening of European security. In pursuing its national policies, Armenia has made it a priority to support the international efforts in securing 20 peace and stability throughout the world. We believe that our full participation in the work of the Conference on Disarmament will allow us to make further contributions to the issues of arms control and disarmament. We hope members will support Armenia in its willingness to become a full member of the Conference on Disarmament. Armenia welcomes the millennium summit initiative. At the threshold of the new millennium, it is important for heads of State and Government to discuss the tasks that the United Nations is going to undertake in providing global peace and security. Believing that the United Nations should play the leading role in the formation of an international anti-criminal strategy, Armenia supports the idea of holding, in Vienna in the year 2000, the Tenth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and the Treatment of Offenders. We call for the accession of the maximum number of countries to universal conventions against terrorism and support the Russian proposal on a United Nations convention for combating acts of nuclear terrorism. Armenia, likewise, supports the initiative of holding a conference or a special session of the General Assembly against terrorism in 2000. On 1 October, Armenia will sign the Statute of the International Criminal Court, thus becoming the eighty- seventh State to do so. Maintenance of international peace is one of the most important functions of the United Nations. The challenges that the international community faces today are diverse and complicated. This holds true especially for the reform of the Security Council, since ensuring peace and security throughout the world depends on a Security Council which functions effectively. Security Council resolutions, including those on peacekeeping operations, should be unbiased and universal and reflect a common approach to conflicts, based on internationally accepted principles and criteria. One way to strengthen the role and function of the Security Council is to ensure a more equitable representation of the membership of the United Nations in that organ, in accordance with the sovereign equality of States and other relevant provisions of the Charter, and to make its work more transparent. Representation in the Security Council that is more equitable can be achieved by increasing the number of its members, taking into account the growth in the membership of the United Nations. After this brief comment on matters that concern Armenia's current affairs, its membership in the United Nations and the outstanding issues of the Nagorny Karabakh conflict, allow me a moment of reflection. We are often so preoccupied by immediate crises that lingering, chronic and fundamental phenomena do not always get our full attention. At this end of the century and millennium and on the threshold of a new era, we would not be candid if we did not admit to a certain disappointment, a certain sad recognition that we, as a collectivity, a community of nations, have not come as far as people everywhere would have wished us to come. I am sure we are not alone in our disappointment as we look around us and see that the hopes of 1989 have not been fully realized in the last 10 years: Rwanda, Kosovo and East Timor are all, historically speaking, very much in the present. It is not for lack of charters, conventions and universal declarations that tragic events and murderous actions are committed, often by States, and even in the name of those same charters, conventions and declarations. After the Second World War, after the end of the cold war, we might have been justified in expecting some respite from the organized display of man's inhumanity to man, of fratricidal war between citizens and State attempts to exterminate some part of its own people. But of course very recent experience tells us that the persecution of innocent civilians on no other grounds than their ethnicity, religion or national origin continues unabated. Armenia and Armenians have a unique history through which to interpret these events. We notice the ever more frequent use of the term “genocide” in continent after continent and we are reminded of our own tragic experience as genocide victims at the beginning of this century. It is sad but true that the genocide of Armenians, which began in 1915, opened this century of horrors. We at least are convinced that nothing contributes as much to the repetition of horrors as the reluctance and unwillingness with which those complicit in them tell the truth, or even their avoiding doing so at all. Denying the reality of evil, portraying it as merely relative and rendering it banal have done much to have evil seen as a political event to manipulate and equivocate and prevaricate about in the name of realpolitik. In Armenia, our democracy and future prosperity depend on there coming a time when, through peace, the Caucasus will fulfil its promise as a region of neighbourly cooperation and economic growth. Without regional political stability, the regional economic prospects for all 21 countries of the Caucasus will remain precarious. And unless the security needs and the aspirations of the people of the region are satisfied, there can be no political stability.  At the outset, I would like to congratulate Mr. Gurirab on his election to preside over this historic session of the General Assembly. It is a tribute to his rich experience and to his great country, Namibia. His predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti of Uruguay, also deserves our appreciation for the excellent manner in which he discharged his important responsibilities. Permit me also to pay tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his dedication and commitment to the ideals of the United Nations. As we meet for the final session of this century, and, indeed, of this millennium, we are faced with a future that holds for us promises and perils, hopes and fears, opportunities and challenges. We cannot secure a better future unless the root causes of the problems of our times are resolved. The United Nations, as the only truly global Organization, is best suited to address these problems. Its role, therefore, must be reaffirmed and must remain central to our efforts in the reconstruction of a more just world order where human security is guaranteed. Since the establishment of this Organization, small States have earned a legitimate voice in multilateral diplomacy. I am delighted today to welcome the three new Members of the United Nations, the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. As small States, Maldives and the three new Members share numerous interests and concerns which are vital to our common survival and progress. We stand at a crossroads. This is an ideal opportunity to review our past performance and to map out innovative approaches to address existing and emerging problems. As we get ready to enter the new century and the new millennium, we in the Maldives have developed Vision 2020 for our country, based on the lessons of the past. The Vision sets out major directions for the next two decades. We envision a community that is just, caring and peaceful. Our country must continue to be one in which good governance, democracy and the welfare of the people are given the highest priority. We seek a society where gender equality is a reality and where everyone has the opportunity for self-actualization. We want our children to be happy, creative and safe. These aims can be realized only through a high level of economic achievement and social progress. However, our resources are meagre. We face numerous natural hazards and are vulnerable to a wide range of man-made threats. Nevertheless, we remain firm in our determination to achieve the goals we have set for ourselves. But for 36 that to happen, our own efforts must be supplemented by a supportive international environment. That much we need and that much we seek. Nevertheless, the withdrawal of that supportive framework seems, regrettably, to be imminent. The Maldives has been earmarked for graduation from the list of least developed countries (LDC) next year. We do not feel entirely comfortable with the LDC label. Indeed, we would like to enter the new millennium as a self-reliant country. National pride, however, cannot transcend harsh economic reality. Our economy is small and narrowly based. Capacity for economic diversification in the immediate future is limited. Graduation would therefore impose unbearable burdens on us. The General Assembly is to review the graduation process and its criteria this year. I appeal to you to consider the realities on the ground. I call upon you to look beyond abstract indicators to the inherent vulnerabilities of small States. My President has already conveyed our concerns in detail to the President of the Economic and Social Council. The Commonwealth has strongly supported our case. The liberalization of trade and the globalization of the economy have created windows of opportunity for increased economic growth. Their impact, though, has created a particularly difficult economic road for developing countries. Globalization must progress without marginalization and without further impoverishment. The seven nations of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) are working together to enhance our prospects in the new international economic climate through greater regional cooperation. Yet, ominously, on a global scale the gulf between rich and poor nations has reached tragic proportions. These harsh economic realities have been accompanied by the fragmentation of the international will to foster greater equality. Aid programmes had previously supplemented domestic savings in recipient countries, but today they are not even adequate to save the destitute, leaving many developing countries with little choice but to replace their visions of advancement with those of survival and life- support. The world's present focus on poverty eradication only underscores its past failure to narrow the gap between the rich and the poor. It is disheartening to note that the gap has more than doubled since 1950. I am happy that a number of international initiatives on social issues have taken place during this decade. The Maldives attaches great importance to the fulfilment of the Copenhagen commitments and the implementation of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action. We look forward to their review meetings next year to give a fresh impetus to our action. In South Asia, the Maldives has called for the drawing up of a social charter that will institutionalize social development in the region. We are also pressing for a SAARC convention on regional arrangements to promote and protect child welfare. I hope that the convention will be adopted as we mark the tenth anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The international social agenda is indeed a demanding one. It cannot be addressed by national Governments acting alone. Cooperation among States and partnerships with inter-governmental and non- governmental organizations are essential for victory on this front. At the same time, our approach to economic performance needs to be re-oriented towards human security and ecological safety. We need to temper our obsession over economic growth with concerns for the quality of life. We all accept the importance of sustainable development. We all agree on the need for effective global action to achieve environment-friendly progress. Yet, the clear message that has emerged from the review of the Barbados Programme of Action completed this week is that of weak commitment and poor implementation. Our deeds must match the sentiments we have expressed. We must deliver on our promises. Small island developing States have few options that they can pursue on their own. International cooperation is vital to ensure that sustainable development strategies are viable for them. It is also necessary to help them adapt to the dangers posed by global warming and climate change. As we have reiterated on numerous occasions, the Maldives could very well cease to exist if the sea level rises by one metre. Many other low-lying regions would suffer a similar fate. Should the sea level rise by one metre, the developed countries too would be affected significantly, and the direct impact on biodiversity would be unfathomable. The Maldives is therefore deeply disappointed by the lack of action in implementing the Barbados pledges. While great Powers may be able to look after their own security needs, the small States need to rely on institutions of collective security. I am happy to recall that 10 years ago, the Assembly adopted resolution 44/51, which recognized that the international community has an obligation to make provision for the protection and security of small States. We are grateful for the support 37 of the international community for our initiative on this issue, but we remain concerned that time and again the response of the United Nations to crises, especially those involving small States, has been found wanting in speed and in effectiveness. It is a pity that we have to enter the new century and the new millennium still carrying baggage containing many unresolved and deep-seated problems that confronted the United Nations at its birth. One such problem is the Middle East problem. Peace in the Middle East still remains elusive. Hesitant steps have been taken, but many issues remain unresolved. The Maldives has welcomed the Middle East peace process from the beginning. We are disappointed at its slow progress and look forward to a more earnest and bold search for peace. Once again, we express our full support to the Palestinian cause and call for the full implementation of the relevant United Nations resolutions on lasting peace in the region. Eight years after the Gulf war, there are still many unresolved issues that affect the security and progress of the region. The Maldives calls upon all parties concerned to fully comply with the resolutions of the United Nations on the subject. We regret the suspension of talks between Kuwait and Iraq on outstanding bilateral issues, including that of missing persons, and believe that the resolution of these issues should be pursued within the existing framework of relevant United Nations resolutions. The Maldives reaffirms its unwavering support for the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Kuwait. We reiterate our belief that the United Nations has an obligation to uphold the security and territorial integrity of all Member States, including smaller States. The post-cold-war years have seen the bitter betrayal of the promise of greater freedom and development. Rather than seeing a celebration of human rights and the legitimate rights of communities to their own identity and cultural values, arrogant ethnocentrism and intolerance appear to be rampant. Indeed, the violent disintegration of States and civil wars have led to the most gruesome crimes against humanity. Genuine aspirations have often been met with brutal force, as in Bosnia and Kosovo. Protracted disputes, such as in Kashmir, are continuing to exact a high price in human lives and constantly endanger security at both the regional and international levels. Strategies of nuclear deterrence which presumably rely on the credible threat of mass destruction cannot be justified on moral grounds. We welcome the steps that are being taken to increase nuclear safety. We continue to be alarmed by the increased risk of nuclear war that accompanies proliferation. The Maldives is a staunch supporter of non-proliferation. We firmly believe that the world will be a safer place without nuclear weapons. We hope that the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) review process will find ways to achieve progress in all aspects of the non-proliferation regime. The continuation of many conflicts and the flaring up of others call into question the efficacy of this Organization. It is not only the passage of time that demands the reform and restructuring of the United Nations. The most persuasive argument is the urgent need to increase the ability of the United Nations to realize the objectives for which it has been set up. Whatever reform is undertaken should be instrumental in that sense. Reform must enhance its legitimacy. Reform must make the United Nations more democratic and transparent, and it must also reinforce the United Nations ability to uphold equality among nations. As we step into the new century, the world has reached a major turning point. We are bidding farewell to one millennium and are marching with determination into a new one. It is one in which a stronger commitment to multilateralism will be essential. Many of the hazards that we are faced with do not recognize national borders. The world has become closely integrated, and communities have become highly interwoven across national frontiers, necessitating global approaches to global problems. Advances in science and technology give us cause for optimism in our efforts to overcome several of the challenges that confront us today. These are assisted by new mindsets of cooperation and emotional intelligence. We need to nurture the positive strands and prune the negative. Yet the new century will not usher in a new age unless hope and progress become universal. The new millennium will not set an enlightened course for world politics until right can triumph over might and double standards give way to justice for all. That is the millennium challenge.   On behalf of the Indonesian delegation, I should first like to congratulate my colleague and good friend Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Foreign Minister of Namibia, on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. We are confident that under his leadership we will achieve substantial progress in our work. To his predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, I convey our sincere appreciation for his able guidance of our work during the last session. I join other members in paying a tribute to our Secretary-General for his untiring pursuit of the objectives of the United Nations Charter. On behalf of the Government and people of Indonesia, I extend a warm welcome to Kiribati, Nauru and Tonga on their accession to membership of the United Nations. My delegation looks forward to working closely with them. Every year at this time, for more than a decade now, I have tried from this rostrum to present Indonesia's views on the state of world affairs and international relations. Today, I could deliver last year's statement, or even that of three years ago, and it would not make much difference because there really has been no significant change. It is true that there are always a number of positive developments. This year they include the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum signed by Palestinian President Yasser Arafat and Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak, which raises our hopes for the resumption of the derailed Middle East peace process. They include also the Lomé Peace Agreement on Sierra Leone; the Framework Agreement on the conflict between Eritrea and Ethiopia, the Ceasefire Agreement on the Democratic Republic of the Congo, some progress in the rehabilitation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the resolution of the stalemate over the Lockerbie incident. Closer to home, there have been the signing of the 5 May 1999 Agreements reached in New York and the implementation of the historic popular consultation in East Timor which — although, most unfortunately, its aftermath was marred by violence — remains an important, positive development. These are all encouraging steps in a long journey towards just and durable solutions. In the economic field, investor confidence is beginning to trickle back into the Asian economies severely hit by the financial and economic crisis. This return of confidence and the positive signs in the affected economies — such as stability of currencies and lower interest rates — could be the first firm indications of a recovery. Recently the G-8 decided to ease the debt burden of the poorest countries by expanding the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative. This will help the poorest countries get back on the road of development. But ours is still an essentially brutal world. In many places, wanton violence and armed conflicts persist, often bringing about humanitarian disaster. In spite of the presence of a United Nations peacekeeping force, Serbs and Albanian Kosovars are still shooting each other in Kosovo. In Afghanistan, dialogue has been abandoned and once more the warring factions have taken to the battlefield. In South Asia, an uneasy ceasefire reigns over the line of control between two neighbouring States with nuclear-weapon capability. Meanwhile, in the backwaters and slums of the developing world, in the ghettos of the industrialized countries, hundreds of millions fight a desperate war against poverty, ignorance and disease. There has as yet been no fulfilment of a hope we all share, a hope to which we have clung for nigh on a century. A hundred years ago, electricity was just beginning to light up the cities of the world, the commercial manufacture of horseless carriages had just begun and the pioneers of air travel were taking off in crude flying machines. But it was beyond question even then that enormous power called science and technology had been placed in the hands of humankind. It was clear even then that the prudent use of such power could solve the problem of poverty that for millenniums people accepted and suffered as an inevitable part of the human condition. Since then, unfortunately, that power has been used instead to enlarge humankind's capacity to kill and destroy. That terrible capacity was amply demonstrated in two world wars that levelled cities and decimated populations in Europe and Asia. In time of peace, science 34 and technology have made it possible for one part of humanity to adopt an irresponsible lifestyle and patterns of production and consumption that ravage the fragile ecology of this planet while teeming millions, in the squalor of poverty, driven by the pangs of hunger, are tearing their environment apart in a desperate bid to survive. Five decades ago, the human race teetered on the brink of a nuclear holocaust, but we were able to postpone the effective end of history because between us and the precipice stood the one shining achievement of humanity in a violent century, the United Nations. Founded in the wake of the Second World War as a forum for maintaining security, resolving conflicts and serving development, the United Nations is, whatever its flaws, a masterpiece of human reason. It has not achieved its finest promise of global peace, nor has it significantly curbed poverty. Still, it has managed to save us from the horrors of yet another world war, one fought with nuclear weapons. And together with its specialized agencies and related institutions, it is carrying out an immense array of activities in support of economic development and social progress; these are touching every aspect of people's lives all over the world, and thus at least keep hopes alive. But even the very instrument of our salvation is not spared our recklessness: the United Nations has been allowed to go bankrupt at a time when so much more is demanded of it as the central mechanism and catalyst for multilateral cooperation. Its organs should be working in harmony and complementing one another: instead, we have the spectacle of a Security Council — when not paralysed by the veto of a permanent member — venturing to take over the work of other United Nations organs in such fields as human rights, democracy and humanitarian aid. The unhappy truth is that the inequities, imbalances and discrimination in international relations that the United Nations was supposed to cure have infected its own vital organs and processes. This is true not only of the United Nations itself but also of related multilateral institutions. This is why it has been so difficult to reform, democratize and empower the United Nations, and so difficult to make the membership of the Security Council truly reflect the political, economic and demographic realities of the world today. Although the work of the Council is focused on conflict situations that are mostly in the developing world, developing countries are woefully under-represented on the Council. For the same reason, nuclear disarmament has achieved no substantial progress in recent years. In fact, the nuclear arms race has surged along as countries seek to join and enjoy the dubious privileges of being nuclear- weapon States. The world thus remains in danger of nuclear self-destruction. The same situation obtains in multilateral economic forums. They, too, have become afflicted with the inequities and imbalances they are meant to rectify. The introduction of irrelevant social issues and undue emphasis on unfettered markets in these forums have brought about the neglect of core development issues, such as international cooperation for development, the need for non-commercial financial flows and the necessity of differential treatment for developing countries. Thus, the international agenda has been steered by the desire of developed countries to open doors for their foreign investments, private capital flows and exports. This has led to the eclipse of development as a common goal and a common responsibility of developed and developing nations. It has engendered a tendency to forget commitments reached at global conferences on environment and development, social development, population and development, women and development, habitat and food. Just over a decade ago, with the barriers of the cold war broken down, science and technology unlocked the awesome force of globalization. This blind force could have served as the chief instrument of a united humankind in a decisive assault against the global problems of poverty and underdevelopment. We could have enlisted it to empower people everywhere and thus broaden participation in governance and productive initiatives. We could have built a more equitable partnership between the developed and the developing world. But at best, the weaker economies were left to the tender mercies of the market. At worst, globalization has been used by the strong to press their advantage over the weak, widening the chasm between rich and poor. After all this, what can we say to sum up the passing of 100 years? If progress means going to the moon and exploring outer space; if it means the rapid movement of money, goods and people from one continent to another and the delegation of personal initiative to clever machines, then we have made some 35 progress. But if it means the conquest of poverty, the taming of the human penchant for conflict and violence, and ensuring the long-term sustainability of human life, I am afraid that we may be entering the new millennium not really much better off than we were a century ago. Our tragedy is not in our ignorance, but in the waste of our wisdom. The truth is that we know the solutions to our problems. We know what kind of global partnership it would take to tackle the problems of poverty and underdevelopment. We have spelled out the global measures to initiate in order to prevent the irreversible decay of our environment. And we are aware of what it would take to move the disarmament agenda forward; what kind of representation on the Security Council would make it a true instrument of the whole international community. But we do not make the necessary decisive moves because these require change — profound and radical change. There must be change not only in our methods, but in the way we look at the world, the way we regard one another and ourselves. That kind of change brings no comfort and poses the deepest challenge to our faith and our courage. Hence, we hesitate. The protracted debates in this Assembly, in the Economic and Social Council, in the Conference on Disarmament and in many other forums are in reality just one long hesitation. We in Indonesia know how difficult that kind of change can be. In response to the Asian financial and economic crisis, as well as to its social and political impact, we have begun to reform our social, economic and political institutions. New laws are being passed, new ways are being tried to give our people the widest opportunity to participate in the making of decisions that affect their lives, to level the economic playing fields and to earn the confidence of our foreign partners. The Government has taken a long, hard look at itself and its responsibilities today. In the case of East Timor, our responsibility has changed. Twenty-four years ago, it was our responsibility to accept the Territory as a province of our Republic in order to stop ongoing fratricidal carnage after a disastrously bungled decolonization process; to accommodate the desire of the majority of East Timorese at that time to seek freedom and sanctuary through integration with our Republic; and to contribute to the security and stability of the Asia-Pacific region. We accepted that responsibility and additional burden, although we had never laid claim to that half-island, as it was not a part of the Dutch East Indies out of which the Indonesian nation evolved. Today our responsibility and our commitment are to help make possible the fulfilment of the newly expressed will of the majority of East Timorese to seek a new destiny outside the Indonesian Republic. We will abide by that responsibility and commitment and at the same time ensure that the parting of ways will proceed honourably, peacefully and amicably. In this process of change, not only in East Timor but also throughout our national life and in our relations with our friends, we have not had an easy time. We have had more than our share of setbacks, frustrations and mistakes. In the depths of every disappointment, we have had to summon the courage to persevere, to start all over again whenever necessary, because there is no alternative acceptable to our people. We do pray for the courage to change, but not for ourselves alone. For the solutions to the global problems of our time demand a fortitude on the part of nations that is strong enough to break the doubts, the prejudices, the sophistry and the apathy that have hardened with the passing of decades. That means the courage to take action where we have only paid lip-service. It also means the courage to recognize that many of our problems are complex and demand more creativity from us than we have so far demonstrated. For instance, we fully agree that massive and systematic violations of human rights, wherever they take place, should not be tolerated or condoned. But we cannot agree that this problem can be solved only by sacrificing the principle of national sovereignty and sovereign equality among nations. There must be a solution that does not threaten to demolish a principle on which the United Nations itself was founded. Let us have the intellectual courage to look for that solution and be willing to make any sacrifice to attain it, except the sacrifice of our principles. If many of us have grown cynical, I believe that it is not out of arrogance, but out of fear of the consequences of change, the loss of some privilege or advantage over another, or out of fear of futility and failure. We can overcome these fears because they are but shadows on the wall; they have no substance. There will be failures and there will be setbacks, but if what we set out to do is worthwhile, and nothing is more worthwhile than the perpetuation of humankind, we will succeed. Let us now all act in consonance with our commitments to the United Nations Charter; to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT); to 36 Agenda 21; to the Uruguay Round and the World Trade Organization (WTO); to all agreements on international financial flows for development; on cooperation on human rights; on the eradication of all forms of discrimination. We cannot bring all of these to fruition in a single day, and some of them not even in a full decade, but if we all do that today, it will be enough to start with. If we keep building on that to achieve something significant, we engender encouragement. We add to the fund of courage that the world needs to become a better one. And that fund of courage is all it will take for humanity to make an auspicious entry into the next millennium.   I have the honour to speak on behalf of the European Union. Mr. President, I would like to congratulate you upon your election as President of the General Assembly. The European Union gives you its full support and cooperation throughout this session. Your predecessor, Minister Opertti, also deserves our appreciation. I would also commend the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the skill with which he has steered this Organization. The European Union pledges its support also to him, as well as its full commitment to the United Nations. 20 I should like to welcome the three new members of the United Nations, the Republics of Kiribati and Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga, into our global family. In overall terms substantial progress has been made in human development. However, its speed and extent have been uneven. The United Nations has a primary role in the advancement of human development. Implementation can be carried out only through close cooperation among different actors: the United Nations, its Member States, its specialized agencies, international financial institutions, regional organizations and civil society. We need an efficient and effective United Nations which has a stable financial basis and a full commitment from all its Member States. This also means the full, prompt and unconditional payment of contributions to the United Nations by all. Unilateral decisions and actions to the contrary are not allowed. The globalization of the world economy is an unavoidable process. We see the need to put the globalization process and macroeconomic policies in closer touch with the lives of ordinary people. We consider this to be one of the challenges facing the world community on the threshold of the new millennium. The United Nations is uniquely positioned to provide intellectual leadership to ensure that the advantages of economic globalization are equally shared by the world’s population. Increasing interdependence must work for people. The nature of crises has also changed. Most of today’s conflicts take place within and not between States. We face situations where there are serious democracy deficiencies and where human rights are strongly violated, in particular the rights of the minorities. In the worst cases, States with their traditional institutions have ceased to exist, as Secretary-General Kofi Annan described so well in his opening statement. At the threshold of a new millennium, we should intensify our efforts to prevent these situations. We should start to consider how to elaborate some criteria and rules aimed at the prevention of humanitarian catastrophes or alleviation of profound human suffering. The international community needs to develop solutions and responses to these new and unexpected challenges. The international community must play a proactive role in conflict prevention. There are several forms of action that have a useful effect in preventing conflicts. These include strengthening democracy and respect for human rights, as well as progress in economic and social development through good governance. The most important factor in conflict prevention is, however, a democratic society which is on a steady foundation and which guarantees human security in its widest possible sense. Democratic societies do not go to war with each other, and they are also internally more stable. Every human being is entitled to enjoy his or her human rights and fundamental freedoms. Human rights are essential in the maintenance of international peace and security, economic development and social equality. The United Nations has a primary role in the promotion of universal respect for human rights. These must be further integrated in all United Nations activities. The promotion of universal respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms is central also to the activities of the European Union. The tenth anniversary of the adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child reminds us of the need to advance the rights of the most vulnerable: children. The European Union welcomes the recent adoption of the International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention on the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child labour. All States should ratify the Convention as soon as possible and implement it effectively. The protection of children affected by armed conflicts also requires constant attention. It is imperative to adopt without delay the optional protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, on involvement of children in armed conflict. The European Union is concerned about discrimination against women. We underline the importance of the international human rights instruments designed to protect and promote the human rights and fundamental freedoms of women. The adoption of the optional protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women will be a historic event in this session. The European Union calls on all States to give serious consideration to ratifying it. Trafficking in human beings violates many of the most basic human rights. Most victims of this practice are women and children. Concerted international action is required in the fight against trafficking. The European Union supports the work done to develop international standards to prevent these crimes and to punish the perpetrators. Measures must also be taken to help the victims of this type of exploitation. 21 Racism is a universal problem. Thus, the elimination of all forms of racial intolerance should be the responsibility of every State. We also want to underline the input by civil society and non-governmental organizations in this field. The European Union is committed to opposing the death penalty. We call on all States that still impose the death penalty to progressively restrict the offences for which it may be used, and we insist that it be carried out according to minimum standards. As a first step, a moratorium on executions should be established. The final aim must remain the complete abolition of the death penalty. The European Union will actively pursue this matter in this session. No doubt, sustainable development in all areas enhances crisis prevention. People are at the centre of our concerns in sustainable development. The Buenos Aires Plan of Action sets out an ambitious and precise timetable to follow in future negotiations on the threat of climate change. However, there are still important outstanding questions, such as the Kyoto mechanisms and capacity-building of developing countries, as well as the transfer of technology. In the Intergovernmental Forum on Forests, our common goal is to promote sustainable forest management worldwide. The European Union also notes the need for international coordination on oceans and seas. The European Union is fully committed to reducing extreme poverty in developing countries. We support them in their efforts to implement the international commitments for sustainable development. International cooperation, as well as ownership by partner countries, is needed to achieve the common goals. Relieving the unsustainable debt burden of the poorest countries requires faster relief through the programme for the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries. The European Union confirms its full commitment to the high-level discussion on financing for development. We expect this process to increase the political will to implement internationally agreed strategies for sustainable development. The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) remains a cornerstone of global security. It is imperative that the four States that have not yet done so join the NPT. The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) is a key instrument in the field of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. As we are approaching the Conference on the CTBT to be held in October, the European Union calls upon all States to sign and ratify the Treaty. The European Union welcomes the entry into force of the Ottawa Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their Destruction. As the international community moves towards the total elimination of anti- personnel landmines worldwide, the recent use of these weapons is highly deplorable. We must voice concern about the misery that anti-personnel mines continue to cause to the civilian population. The European Union continues to be the main contributor to demining programmes worldwide. We are deeply concerned about the impact, accumulation and spread of small arms and light weapons, and we have intensified our efforts to address this problem. The United Nations conference on the illicit arms trade in all its aspects should establish a strong programme of action for international cooperation. Terrorism constitutes a threat to internal and international security. Therefore, the European Union reaffirms its unreserved condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and continues to support initiatives to suppress it. We call upon all countries to sign and to ratify the international anti-terrorism conventions. We hope that the conventions on the suppression of terrorist financing and on the acts of nuclear terrorism can be adopted by the General Assembly by the end of this year. The European Union will look carefully into the proposal of Egypt and others to develop further the idea of a United Nations conference on terrorism. As the Secretary-General has said, it would be the ultimate crime to miss the chance for peace and condemn people to the misery of war. Even the best plans for prevention can fail, and the international community has to address armed conflicts. These conflicts have human, social and environmental consequences which cannot be repaired. The international community has a long tradition of solving crises by peacekeeping operations. Now that the nature of crises has changed, additional means are needed. Peacekeeping operations cannot meet all the requirements without increased efforts for civilian crisis management. In most crises, societies and their structures are completely destroyed. 22 The international community has called for repair and rehabilitation. Humanitarian assistance alone is not enough. Reconstruction of societies requires the presence of civilian police and other administrators from all fields of civil activity. In most cases it is difficult to find the right tools to cope with conflicts. The European Union strongly emphasizes civilian crisis management. We hope that it will be more often resorted to as the principal means to manage and solve crises. We will work actively to develop further this concept. The European Union is in the process of improving its crisis management capabilities, keeping in mind that the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security lies with the United Nations and the Security Council. Regional organizations have a key role in international security. For their success, cooperation with the United Nations is essential. The European Union thanks the Secretary-General for his efforts to strengthen this cooperation and urges him to continue this work. The crisis in Kosovo requires concerted efforts. The European Union supports the full implementation of Security Council resolution 1244 (1999). With the adoption of this resolution, the United Nations regained its relevance as far as Kosovo is concerned. We also support the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) and KFOR in their efforts to ensure peace, democracy and security in Kosovo. The United Nations needs the means and cooperation of all to fulfil its mandate. At the height of the Kosovo crisis the European Union launched the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe. Its aim is to address the questions of democracy, human rights, economic reconstruction and security in a comprehensive and durable manner. We would welcome the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia joining the Stability Pact as a full and equal participant and beneficiary. The current regime of Mr. Milosevic is responsible for its present isolation, and we look forward to welcoming democratic change inside Serbia. Meanwhile, we are searching for ways in which Kosovo and the Republic of Montenegro could be made beneficiaries of the Pact. In Kosovo there is an urgent need to put an end to human suffering. We are concerned about the violence towards minorities, which has resulted in a large number of Serbs and Roma people leaving Kosovo. Urgent restoration of the rule of law is extremely important. The Middle East remains a top priority for the common foreign and security policy of the European Union. We find it encouraging that the Middle East peace process has regained momentum and that the negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians have started again. Negotiations are the only way to find a just and lasting solution to this conflict. We welcome the signing of the memorandum on the implementation of the Wye River Agreement. The European Union has consistently assured the parties of its readiness to assist them in their search for peace. All tracks of the peace process should now be activated. We urge the Syrian, Lebanese and Israeli Governments to engage in direct talks. The relevant Security Council resolutions form an internationally accepted basis for peace. It is also important to make progress on the multilateral track. Peace can, and must be, rooted in close regional cooperation. The multilateral track and the Barcelona process provide good opportunities in this regard. The European Union warmly welcomes the result of the popular consultation of the East Timorese people on 30 August 1999. Indonesia’s commitment to the full implementation of the relevant Agreements is imperative. We are committed to seeing the people of East Timor enjoy the independence which they have freely chosen. The European Union pays tribute to the United Nations for the organization of the popular consultation and lauds the courage and extraordinary work of the personnel of the United Nations Mission in East Timor. We condemn in the strongest terms the atrocities in East Timor. The Government of Indonesia retains a responsibility for security in the Territory. We fully support Security Council resolution 1264 (1999) and welcome the early deployment of the multinational force. We also welcome the participation of Asian States in this force. Order, security and the rule of law must be restored immediately. The attitude of the European Union towards Indonesia will depend on the implementation of the undertakings given by the President of Indonesia. They should be implemented without delay and without conditions. We have agreed, for a period of four months, on an embargo on the export of military equipment and other equipment which might be used for internal repression or 23 terrorism. The European Union has also suspended its bilateral military cooperation with Indonesia. The European Union stresses the urgent priority to remedy the grave humanitarian situation. We will provide further humanitarian assistance to those in need. We also support the call of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to convene a special session of the Commission on Human Rights. We call for an investigative mission by the Commission. East Timor’s independence must proceed without delay, as provided for in the 5 May Agreements. The Member States of the European Union look forward to recognizing East Timor once the process towards independence is completed. We also emphasize our desire to see a strong, democratic and united Indonesia. The European Union continues to fully support the efforts of the Secretary-General towards a negotiated political settlement of the question of Cyprus. We urge the two leaders concerned to accept the invitation to negotiations under the auspices of the Secretary-General. The Secretary-General has said that the United Nations cannot rest until all of Africa is at peace. One third of sub-Saharan Africa is presently involved in armed conflicts. The victims of these conflicts are overwhelmingly civilians. The European Union strongly appeals to the parties in these and other ongoing conflicts to respect human rights and to cooperate with the humanitarian organizations. We will continue to make all efforts to provide assistance to the victims. Concrete measures have been taken to strengthen African ownership and capacity to focus on conflict prevention and resolution. The European Union is supporting, in close cooperation with the United Nations, the capacity of African organizations in the field of conflict resolution and peacekeeping. A stable and democratic political environment is indispensable for sustainable development. The EU welcomes the Secretary-General’s report on the causes of conflict and the promotion of durable peace and sustainable development in Africa, and we look forward to its effective follow-up. The first EU-Africa summit is scheduled to take place in April 2000. This summit is a clear signal of the close cooperation between the EU and the African countries aimed at addressing various, even delicate, political and socio-economic issues. One of the principal objectives of the Amsterdam Treaty is to strengthen the EU’s Common Foreign and Security Policy. To achieve this we have created new units and instruments to deal with the increasing challenges in the field of foreign policy. In accordance with the Amsterdam Treaty, we are going to consistently improve our capacity for conflict prevention and crisis management. The EU will increase its ability to contribute to international peace and security, in accordance with the principles of the United Nations Charter. Finally, I should like to say a few words about the next millennium. The Millennium Assembly should give new direction to the renewal of the United Nations. The EU supports the overall theme “The United Nations in the twenty-first century”, proposed by the Secretary-General. In the view of the EU, the focus should be on poverty eradication in the context of globalization. Poverty eradication is a major challenge for the international community now that the world’s population is reaching six billion, with nearly a quarter of that number still living in poverty. It is one of the greatest challenges left pending at the end of the twentieth century. 24 With the new millennium, we should also recognize the increased importance of civil society in the search for solutions. This is one of the cornerstones of the new era in international cooperation.It gives me great pleasure to congratulate Mr. Gurirab on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. I am confident that the struggle for freedom of his friendly country, Namibia, and his wide-ranging knowledge of international issues will facilitate his lofty task and will lead the deliberations of the Assembly at this important session to a successful conclusion. I should like to express my thanks to the Foreign Minister of Uruguay for his efforts and wise leadership of our deliberations in the General Assembly during the previous session. I should also like to express our gratitude to the Secretary-General of our Organization, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his attempts to uphold the principles and purposes of the Charter of the United Nations. The Syrian Arab Republic welcomes the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga to the United Nations. We are confident that the presence of these States in the international community will buttress the role of the United Nations and uphold its principles. 15 Leaving the last century of the second millennium and entering the first century of the third millennium does not in itself mean the end of an era and the beginning of a new one in the life of humankind. States and peoples will take with them into the next century their concerns, aspirations, successes, failures, challenges and hopes. They will continue as usual to follow their economic, educational, political and social development plans and programmes, knowing that the end of the twentieth century will not automatically mean an end to current regional conflicts. Neither will it automatically raise levels of development or rid developing countries of the debt burdens under which they are languishing. If the advocates of market theories and globalization, and their political leaders, were to recognize that at present the poor are becoming poorer while the rich become richer and that the gap between developing and developed countries is becoming wider in every area — whether in the economic, commercial, technical, health or environmental spheres — an element of pessimism would, unfortunately, mar the feeling of optimism with which we hope to welcome the dawn of the twenty-first century. Optimism about the future is desirable because it prevents humanity, both at individual and society levels, from falling into the trap of despair and frustration. Optimism is also justified because progress in research, science and knowledge shrinks distances, eliminates obstacles and opens doors and minds in the South as well as in the North. Given that fact, it is natural that people's understanding of each other's problems and concerns should increase and that ultimately a common awareness will develop to enable everyone to face the threats and challenges that await humankind everywhere on this planet. Like poisonous waste from industrial development, the epidemics resulting from underdevelopment and poverty know no borders or obstacles. Drugs would not have spread in some States in the South had it not been for the many traffickers and users in the countries of the North. Neither should we forget that the pollution of the environment in the countries of the North is primarily the result of industrial production of all kinds, both sophisticated and basic, at a time when environmental pollution in the countries of the South is primarily the result of the lack of a minimum of small, basic industries capable of making products to deal with environmental pollution or of employing the means to do so. In this context, we should like to reaffirm our belief that weakening the economies of the developing countries does not necessarily serve the interests of the economies of developed countries, because it weakens the purchasing power of the former, which, in turn, negatively affects the rates of economic development of the latter. The financial crisis that affected the economies of the countries of South-East Asia two years ago reflected that mutual effect when its repercussions reached Brazil and even some other countries in South America. There must, therefore, be a constructive dialogue between developing and developed countries, a dialogue based on common interests, genuine interrelations and mutual responsibilities aimed at ensuring sustainable development and social justice. We hope that there will be an end to the contrariety by which the industrial countries demand that developing countries open their markets and borders to their products while the developing countries are finding it difficult to export their goods because of protectionist measures and obstacles, including the prevention of the transfer of technology and the refusal to allow developing countries to integrate such technology into their industrial processes. If we were to look back at the ethnic and religious wars and conflicts that spread with the end of the cold war and that reached the heart of Africa, Asia and even Europe, we would find it difficult to imagine their repercussions being confined within closed borders. Through succeeding waves of migration, various religions and ethnic groups have become part of the social fabric of most societies in the world, especially in Western countries. The tragedy of such wars and conflicts is therefore a source of concern for most countries of the world, particularly the United States of America, which has the largest number of ethnic and religious groups of any country in recent history. That fact explains the interest the United States takes in regional conflicts, particularly those in the Middle East, which have repercussions at the domestic level in the United States. Such American interest is commensurate with the varied impact of these conflicts, although one should not disregard the other economic and strategic interests. The impact of impressive scientific and technological advances in communications and in the flow of information on such events will not be limited to a momentary pinprick of conscience when we see them on our television screens. It could well go beyond this in the future, resulting in concrete action by large groups and 16 could in turn threaten the stability and sovereignty of States, especially those whose populations encompass many ethnic groups and religions. It is regrettable that these grave challenges and phenomena will be carried over into the next century, perhaps for years or even decades, without a remedy. We are convinced that the best framework for facing up to these challenges and phenomena in a serious and effective manner is a United Nations truly respected by all its Member States, one based on collective action by the States of the North and of the South, all according to their own potential and capacities. Marginalizing the role of the United Nations, using it only on selected occasions and as a cover for initiatives and decisions adopted outside the Security Council, will serve the interests of no one. The problems and challenges facing mankind are truly grave and dangerous both quantitatively and qualitatively. We believe that no one State, however powerful and wise it is, can meet these universal problems and challenges alone, much less find lasting, solid solutions to them. Clearly, many are dissatisfied with the use of humanitarian pretexts to launch military intervention outside the framework of the Security Council. It began with the intervention in Somalia in 1992, whose repercussions included the collapse of all State institutions and the carving up of the capital, Mogadishu, among fighting warlords. This trend continued with the intervention in Kosovo, where the fate of the people remains in the balance, although the intervention succeeded in supplying the people with medicine and food. But here it must be said that illegitimate intervention outside the framework of the Security Council is not as bad as completely ignoring dangerous and bloody crises such as those beyond what might be called the line of death and hunger: a line stretching from the Horn of Africa, in the east, to Angola, in the west, and then to Rwanda, Burundi and the Congo. Many suffering Africans who live along this bleeding line and who lack the most basic necessities may well envy the inhabitants of Kosovo, who at least had food and medicine during their ordeal. Since the end of the cold war hopes have been pinned on the reform of the United Nations and on an increase in the membership of the Security Council with a view to achieving a more democratic and fairer representation in this international organization. The Non-Aligned Movement has been enthusiastic about this issue and has given it serious consideration at all its conferences. Its member States know full well that they lack influence in the Security Council commensurate with their numbers and reflecting their legitimate concerns. At the same time, Germany and Japan, following major international transformations, have become aware of how important it is for them to become permanent members of the Security Council. Here Italy has played an important role in seeking a third way between the North and the South. No solution has yet emerged that could attract consensus on the subject among members of the United Nations. The unavoidable question for us all is what has so far been achieved in the process of reforming the Security Council and promoting its role and status. The answer is nothing, except for the marginalization of the role and status of the Security Council and the extension of its activities beyond the primary responsibility for maintaining international peace and security, both when events have required it and, at times, when they have not. It seems that the premeditated marginalization of the role of the Security Council and the fact that the reform process has been almost dormant are being used by some as a pretext for ignoring the Charter and violating the sovereignty of States through the use of regional military organizations as a substitute for the Security Council. The world today cannot endure a nuclear arms race that threatens the security and the very survival of mankind, particularly in the absence of a just and stable international order. There will be no successful non- proliferation regime without achieving universality for the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). Syria, the other Arab States and most countries of the world have appealed to the five nuclear States, in the light of the 1995 extension of the NPT, not to exclude any State from acceding to the Treaty, so that the world may be spared another nuclear arms race. A new nuclear arms race has actually taken place in South Asia since the extension of the Treaty. In the Middle East, Israel remains the only State in the region that refuses to accede to the Treaty and to submit all its nuclear installations to the safeguards system of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). As the time for the next review of the NPT approaches, Syria renews its call for transforming the Middle East into a nuclear-weapon-free zone under United Nations auspices, as a serious contribution to the creation of a propitious climate for the regional peace, security and stability to which we all aspire. The international community looked to the peace process that began at Madrid in 1991 as the most 17 important, most serious initiative for ending a conflict that has been raging for decades, one that has bled the huge economic and human energies of the peoples of the region. The Madrid framework, the guarantees offered by the United States, the results reached based on relevant Security Council resolutions, the principle of land for peace, all constituted obligations and commitments accepted by all parties concerned. None of these can now be called into question or circumvented. They all have been duly deposited with the United States Administration, with the agreement of the parties concerned. Hence Syria's call to reaffirm that trust, including complete Israeli withdrawal to the lines of 4 June 1967, and resumption of peace talks with Israel from the point at which they were suspended in order to address pending matters until both sides agree on full peace. What Syria is calling for cannot be considered a “precondition”, as the Israeli government claims: if we were to accept that it was, as the Netanyahu Government also claimed, we would have to conclude that any agreement between negotiators on any single component of any a peace accord would always be considered a “precondition” if any move were made to conclude any other component of a peace accord. And that would invariably take negotiations, back to square one after each step forward, endlessly back and forth. Also, we draw the Assembly's attention to the falsity of the Israeli claim that Syria wants to get a particular result in the negotiations before they have even started. Needless to say, trust in the United States of America does not, by itself, constitute a peace agreement; rather, it is a fundamental part of an agreement whose remaining elements — normal, peaceful relations and security arrangements based on the purposes and principles laid down under United States auspices and with its participation — still need to be fleshed out. So we were not surprised, yesterday, by the address of the Foreign Minister of Israel before this Assembly, when — under the flag of peace education — he requested leaders and teachers to stress to their peoples and students the importance of peace, totally ignoring the fact that the Israeli occupation is a major reason for the absence of peace in the region. Peace education requires first and foremost an end to Israel's occupation of Arab territories. Specifically, it must withdraw from the Golan Heights to the 4 June 1967 line; from south Lebanon; from the western Bekaa, and also from Jerusalem, the city of peace. Settlement activities in the occupied territories and the destruction of Arab houses must stop. Last but not least, Israeli words about peace must be translated into deeds, so that students in Israel do not think that peace education means continued occupation by force of other peoples' lands. During the past few weeks, major efforts have been made by the United States of America, and by the European Union, the Russian Federation and other countries. We hope that these efforts will continue until Israel realizes how fair Syria's position is and how ready Syria is to resume negotiations at the point where they left off. Let us not waste long and arduous years of negotiations: Syria is eager not to miss this opportunity to achieve peace; if it is missed, then Israel alone should take the blame. Syria reaffirms once more its great concern for the unity and territorial integrity of Iraq and calls for an end to the suffering of the fraternal Iraqi people. It calls for economic sanctions to be lifted, in accordance with the relevant Security Council resolutions. It also calls for no action or measure to be taken outside the United Nations context. At the same time, we ask Iraq to implement the remaining Security Council resolutions in a manner that guarantees a just solution to the problem of Kuwaiti prisoners of war and other detainees. Syria also calls on the Security Council to put an immediate and final end to the sanctions against Libya, as Libya has honoured all its obligations under Security Council resolutions. We would emphasize that we fully support the Libyan requests for the sanctions to be ended. In the light of the fraternal relations which Syria maintains with the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran, we call on these two neighbouring countries to hold talks to find a peaceful solution to the dispute over three islands in the Gulf. The continuing tragic situation in Afghanistan is a source of great concern to us. We are convinced that the Afghan problem can be solved only if the fighting ceases and negotiations are begun on achieving national reconciliation and finding an acceptable and lasting political settlement that results in security and stability for our friends the Afghan people. Syria expresses its full support for all measures to ensure peace, security and stability on the Korean peninsula. It expresses its support also for the aspirations of the Korean people for national unity achieved by peaceful means and free of foreign intervention. 18 Syria once again highlights the need to take all necessary steps, at the earliest possible moment, to end the economic, trade and financial embargo on Cuba imposed by the United States of America for almost four decades. We support Cuba's call for differences between the two countries to be resolved through dialogue and on a basis of equality, mutual respect and good- neighbourly relations. As we bid farewell to the twentieth century, the human race is still yearning for a world free of war, injustice, ignorance and poverty, a world governed by international relations based on cooperation, mutual respect, greater justice and true equity. Those are the yearnings which the peoples of the world hope to see realized next century, so that coming generations are guaranteed a better life and a more prosperous and humane future.  Mr.President, it is an honour to address the General Assembly at this session, the last to be held in the twentieth century. May I begin by welcoming the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga to the family of the United Nations. We look forward to working closely with the new Members. The twentieth century has been described as the age of extremes. In this century, human civilization made quantum strides in progress and prosperity. We discovered the ocean depths, travelled into the outer space and landed on the moon. We have witnessed the technological and information revolutions transforming the wide world into a global village. The twentieth century has also been a violent and tragic century. Millions died in the two world wars and hundreds of other conflicts. Millions perished as a result of poverty and disease. This session of the Assembly offers an opportunity to identify the major global challenges which humankind is likely to confront in the next century. The United Nations should therefore devote the next year to evolving ways and means to address these challenges and to promoting an agreed approach next year at the Millennium Assembly. Peace remains the foremost challenge of our times. The end of the cold war and the triumph of the principles of democracy and free markets created hope for the dawn of universal peace. This, unfortunately, turned out to be elusive. Instead, conflicts have continued to ravage the world. Long-suppressed national aspirations, as well as frustration with continuing inequity and deprivation, have led to widespread violence and wars, between and within States. The several conflicts afflicting Africa, the Balkans and the Caucasus, as well as Palestine, Kashmir and Afghanistan, are painful reminders of the ascendance of war and the absence of peace. The United Nations, under the wise leadership of Secretary-General Kofi Annan, has endeavoured to cope with these conflicts and crises. Unilateral approaches, accompanying the centralization of global influence, have not always ensured just and durable solutions to complex problems rooted in history, religion, politics and economics in various parts of the world. In the final and decisive confrontation of the cold war, 1.5 million Afghans were killed, a million were maimed, and a whole country was destroyed. Ten years after the foreign intervention ended, almost 3 million Afghan refugees are still in Pakistan and Iran. With no reconstruction and no development in that poor country, the new generation knows nothing but war. Rehabilitation and reconstruction are the right of the valiant Afghan people. Economic development, accompanied by education and modernization, is the best way to end violence, promote human rights and improve social conditions in Afghanistan. Peace in Afghanistan is vital for Pakistan. Turmoil in Afghanistan creates turbulence on our frontier. The preservation of Afghanistan’s territorial integrity is pivotal 28 for peace and stability throughout Central Asia. Peace in Afghanistan will open vast opportunities for commerce and economic interaction between Central Asia and South Asia and beyond. Pakistan has persisted in promoting peace and reconciliation in Afghanistan. We support the efforts of the United Nations as well as the “six plus two” process. Pakistan is constantly endeavouring to bring about an end to the fighting and promote reconciliation and political accommodation between the Taliban Government and the Northern Alliance. The world has welcomed the resumption of the peace process in the Middle East. We earnestly hope that it will proceed smoothly to culminate in the establishment of a just and durable peace based on the fundamental rights of the Palestinian people, including their right to their own State, and the withdrawal of Israel from the Syrian Golan Heights and southern Lebanon. We are glad that the tension between morality and legality has been overcome in Kosovo. We are happy the Kosovar refugees have returned home. Yet Kosovo’s travails are not over. Pakistan will continue to support the efforts of the United Nations for peace in the Balkans. In East Timor, we trust that the human tragedy has ended, even as the United Nations peacekeepers arrive there. I wish to pay tribute to Secretary-General Kofi Annan and my compatriot, Ambassador Jamsheed Marker, who were greatly challenged in the process of fostering freedom in East Timor while safeguarding stability. We have learned valuable lessons from Kosovo and East Timor: a people’s aspiration for freedom cannot be suppressed indefinitely; a free exercise of the right of self-determination is indispensable for peace; self- determination can be best exercised in an environment free of fear and coercion; and the United Nations is best placed to oversee the exercise of self-determination. These conclusions were already accepted for Kashmir 50 years ago. The Security Council decided that the final disposition of the disputed State of Kashmir should be determined by its people, in a free and impartial plebiscite held under United Nations auspices. India resiled from its acceptance of this agreement and from its own pledge to allow the Kashmiri people to decide their own future. On one pretext or another, it refused to implement the provisions of Security Council resolutions. India's repression in Jammu and Kashmir has killed thousands of Kashmiris, forced hundreds of thousands into exile, led to three wars between Pakistan and India and consigned the two countries to a relationship of endemic conflict and mistrust. Pakistan and India can and must overcome this unfortunate legacy. To this end, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, soon after assuming office two and a half years ago, proposed the initiation of a comprehensive, structured and sustained dialogue between Pakistan and India to address Kashmir, peace and security and other outstanding issues. India agreed, after one year, to a dialogue on Kashmir. To provide political momentum to the bilateral dialogue, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif invited Prime Minister Vajpayee to visit Pakistan. At the Lahore summit, India and Pakistan committed themselves to intensify their efforts to resolve Kashmir, build mutual confidence and peace and pave the way for broader cooperation. In Lahore, the Pakistan Prime Minister urged his Indian counterpart to ease the repression in Kashmir. He cautioned that without progress on Kashmir political dynamics could compromise the good intentions reflected in the Lahore Declaration. But India displayed no desire to genuinely address, let alone resolve, the Kashmir issue. Its cruel repression of the Kashmiri people continued unabated. The Kargil crisis was a manifestation of the deeper malaise spawned by the unresolved Kashmir problem and India's escalating repression of the Kashmiri people. India launched a massive military operation in Kargil and threatened a wider conflict by mobilizing its armed forces all along the Pakistan-India international border. Pakistan acted with restraint. We believed that war between two nuclear-armed neighbours must be avoided. We offered immediate de-escalation and negotiations to address problems along the Line of Control, including India's violation of this Line and occupation of Chorbatla, Siachen and Qamar. Pakistan's efforts led to the disengagement by the Kashmiri freedom fighters from the Kargil heights and offered a renewed opportunity for negotiation and dialogue. Pakistan is ready for the resumption of the Lahore process with India. However, instead of reciprocating Pakistan's willingness to pursue negotiations, India has posed preconditions for resuming the talks. The Indian military deliberately shot down an unarmed Pakistan naval aircraft on a routine flight within our airspace, killing 16 of our naval personnel — mostly young 29 trainees — in cold blood and without any warning. India is also continuing hostilities along the Line of Control and has repeatedly launched attacks across the Line in several sectors. Kashmir is not a dispute over land. It is about the destiny of a people; it is about implementation of the resolutions of the Security Council; it is about respect for the fundamental rights of the Kashmiri people, especially their right to self-determination. The complete boycott by the Kashmiris of the sham elections in Kashmir organized by India earlier this month is clear testimony of their total alienation from India. No settlement can be durable if it is contrary to their wishes. The Kashmir issue cannot be frozen while its people are determined to secure their freedom; while the blood of Kashmiri martyrs is being shed by the bullets and bayonets of the 700,000-strong Indian occupation force. Human rights must be upheld not only in Kosovo and Timor, but also in Kashmir. To make progress towards a settlement, the world must demand that India take immediate steps to halt its repression of the Kashmiri people. For this purpose, India must: first, stop the cruel crackdowns against Kashmiri villages and urban areas; second, release the thousands of Kashmiris held in detention centres and jails; third, remove military pickets and troops stationed in Kashmiri towns and villages; fourth, allow the presence of international human rights organizations in Kashmir; fifth, agree to the stationing of impartial human rights monitors in Jammu and Kashmir; sixth, entrust the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) with a larger role in Kashmir, including the provision of relief and help to the thousands of Kashmiri widows and orphans; and, seventh, agree to a progressive reduction of the 700,000 Indian troops deployed in Kashmir. The international community is increasingly conscious of the imperative for a just resolution of the Jammu and Kashmir dispute. The risk of a wider conflict cannot be contemplated in a nuclear environment. Kashmir remains on the Security Council's agenda. The Council's resolutions remain to be implemented. The promise of self- determination made by the United Nations to the Kashmiri people remains to be fulfilled. Therefore, while we will, hopefully, soon resume bilateral talks with India, Pakistan would welcome the association of the genuine representatives of the Kashmiri people with the negotiating process to promote a solution consistent with the United Nations Security Council resolutions. India's ambitions threaten to further propel our region towards a dangerous nuclear and conventional arms race. For decades — even after India's first nuclear explosion in 1974 — Pakistan sought to exclude nuclear weapons from South Asia. Ironically, the advocates of non-proliferation imposed discriminatory restrictions against Pakistan while ignoring India's steady development of nuclear and missile capabilities. Last May India put the final nail in the coffin of South Asian non- proliferation when it conducted five nuclear tests and declared itself a nuclear-weapon State. Its leaders then proceeded to threaten Pakistan. Confronted by an aggressive nuclear India, Pakistan was obliged to demonstrate its nuclear capability and thus restore nuclear deterrence and strategic balance in South Asia. The response of the major Powers, to penalize not only the offender but also the victim, was patently unfair. Even after our tests, Pakistan proposed nuclear restraint to India, consistent with our conviction that nuclear deterrence can and should be maintained between Pakistan and India at the lowest possible level. In our separate dialogues with the United States and India, we proposed a strategic restraint regime outlining specific measures for nuclear restraint and stabilization, conventional arms balance and the resolution of outstanding disputes. Hopes for restraint have been shattered by the announcement of India's nuclear doctrine, setting out plans to acquire and operationally deploy a huge arsenal of land-, air- and sea-based nuclear weapons and to further build up its conventional forces, almost all of which are deployed against Pakistan. Even the Indian offer of non-first use of nuclear weapons is designed to gain it acceptance as a nuclear-weapon State and to justify the acquisition of a massive nuclear arsenal as a second-strike capability. India's pursuit of this doctrine will destabilize South Asia. Pakistan will be compelled to enhance its nuclear and missile capabilities and operational readiness to preserve deterrence. India must test again to develop warheads for its missiles. This would subvert the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT). India's quest for its large nuclear arsenal could jeopardize prospects for the conclusion of a fissile material cut-off treaty. India's ambitions threaten peace and stability not only in South Asia, but also in adjacent regions, including the Gulf and the sea lanes of the Indian Ocean. The international community must act — and it must act immediately — if it is to avoid a hair-trigger security environment in South Asia, with grave implications for 30 global peace, security and disarmament. To this end, the Assembly should endorse the concept of strategic restraint in South Asia. For this purpose, it should urge India to do the following. First, India should disavow the proposed nuclear doctrine. Secondly, it should refrain from any further nuclear tests and adhere to the CTBT. For its part, Pakistan remains committed to adhering to the CTBT in an atmosphere free of coercion. Thirdly, it should undertake not to operationally deploy nuclear weapons on land, air or sea. Fourthly, it should open negotiations with Pakistan for an agreement to achieve balance in fissile material stocks, while both India and Pakistan participate in the fissile material treaty negotiations, expected to commence early next year in Geneva. Fifthly, India should eschew the acquisition of anti-ballistic missile systems and any military-related capabilities in space; and sixthly, cut back drastically on its plans to purchase and develop various advanced and destabilizing conventional weapons systems. In this context, Pakistan appeals to those countries which intend to supply these conventional weapons to India to reconsider their policies. Pakistan believes that it is now essential to convene a conference, with the participation of all the permanent members of the Security Council and other interested Powers, as well as Pakistan and India, to promote the goals of strategic restraint and stability in South Asia. The threat of nuclear war does not emanate only from South Asia. Although the strategic confrontation of the cold war is over, the major nuclear Powers, even while pressing for non-proliferation by others, have asserted their own right to possess nuclear weapons indefinitely. The implementation of strategic arms reduction agreements is stalled. If the Anti-Ballistic Missile (ABM) Treaty is rescinded or revised, and missile defence plans are implemented, the nuclear-arms race may well be revived among the nuclear-weapon States. And heightened tensions among them, over new or old disputes, could once again move the nuclear doomsday clock closer to midnight. Pakistan supports the endeavours to achieve nuclear disarmament and the early elimination of all nuclear weapons. Multilateral negotiations can evolve agreed plans to realize these vital objectives. We also support the call for preserving the ABM Treaty and avoiding the development and deployment of anti-ballistic missile systems. Negotiations to prevent the further militarization of outer space should be initiated forthwith in the Geneva Conference on Disarmament. In a globalized yet divided world, with modern weaponry and communications available to almost everyone, terrorism has emerged as a pervasive challenge in many parts of the world. It is a complex phenomenon with many manifestations, a lethal tool used by ruthless individuals, groups and States. Pakistan condemns terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, wherever it occurs. For a decade, during the Afghan war, Pakistan was the single largest target of terrorism from across our borders. Even today, our adversaries foment fear in Pakistani cities by sponsoring and financing terrorist bomb blasts and random violence. Our eastern neighbour has mastered the black art of state terrorism in Kashmir, utilizing the tactics of crack-downs, custodial killings, disappearances, arson, torture and rape, as tools of repression against the Kashmiri people's struggle for freedom and self-determination. It is with good reason that the non-aligned countries have denounced the repression of peoples under foreign occupation as the worst form of terrorism. Pakistan condemns the reprehensible tendency in certain quarters to link manifestations of terrorism with Islam. We welcome the resolution adopted earlier this year by the Commission on Human Rights which denounced attempts, including in the media, to defame Islam and link it with terrorism. Free markets and free political systems, accompanied by breath-taking technological advances, are rapidly integrating our world across frontiers and continents. Unfortunately, most developing countries have been bypassed by the benefits of globalization. Income inequality has increased among and within countries. And, as the Asian financial crisis showed, growth has often been fragile. Market forces alone will not yield an equitable economic outcome for all peoples. At the tenth United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD X) and other international conferences, we need to rethink current development strategies and formulate new approaches for broad-based development, guided by the need for economic equity for individuals and nations. Action is required in three main areas. First, in the area of trade, we need a truly level playing field to 31 encourage greater balance in the benefits of a rules-based multilateral trading system for the developing countries. The World Trade Organization (WTO) Ministerial Conference in Seattle can advance this goal by resolving problems involved in the implementation of the Uruguay Round agreements on textiles and agriculture and addressing priority issues for developing countries in future negotiations — not by insisting on premature liberalization in sectors where they are unable to compete. In Seattle, we must also oppose the forces of protectionism disguised as movements to promote environmental and social standards. Secondly, in the financial area, we need a more stable financial order which can control the volatility of capital flows, make available adequate liquidity, especially for the developing countries, alleviate their debt burden, and ensure coherence between global financial and trade policies. The high level “event” on financing for development could help to build agreement on these issues. Thirdly, technology: in an increasingly knowledge- based global economy, the technology and knowledge gap between the developed and developing countries must be rapidly narrowed. To this end, it would be useful to evolve global principles and guidelines for access to and transfer of technology. In our globalizing yet fractured world, marked by stark contrasts between prosperity and poverty, between tranquillity and turbulence, the hopes of hundreds of millions of people lie in the United Nations, the most universal global institution. The United Nations must play its role, as prescribed in the Charter, as the centre for the harmonization of the policies of Member States and as the central instrument for collective security. The Security Council's procedures must be made more transparent and democratic, to reflect the collective will and views of all States Members of the United Nations. The Assembly must also agree on the objectives and principles and the approaches and instruments which will enable the international community to respond to the emerging challenges posed by conflicts, arms proliferation and unequal globalization. It is here, at the United Nations, that we must seek consistent respect for the principles and purposes of the United Nations Charter, and respect for its binding decisions. Only thus can we realize the vision of peace and prosperity for all peoples in a global environment of freedom and democracy. On the occasion of this historic final session of the General Assembly of the current millennium, which is my first, as I took office in May this year, I extend, on behalf of the people of Djibouti, our sincere best wishes to all the members of the Assembly. I should also like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at this fifty- fourth session. Your long and extensive experience with the United Nations, beginning as the representative of the South-West Africa People's Organization (SWAPO) before your country's independence and continuing as its Permanent Observer, has afforded you a deep insight into the internal workings of the Assembly, and the challenges it now faces. We are convinced that, thanks to your ample skills and commitment, this session of the Assembly will bring a remarkable period to a close on a very positive note. We also wish to express our gratitude to your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti of Uruguay, for the exemplary manner in which he conducted the work of the General Assembly. The fact that the Assembly was able to accomplish so much at its fifty-third session was in great measure due to his dedication, skill and intelligent management. We must also acknowledge our great admiration for the tireless efforts of the Secretary-General in continuing his exemplary work under difficult and trying circumstances. On too many fronts the Organization has been facing challenges which jeopardize its proper functioning, whether dealing with issues of peace and conflict, development, or addressing the severe poverty faced by many in the world community. Despite a sharp reduction in the inflow of funds at a time of escalating demands on the Organization, the Secretary-General has succeeded in maintaining a high degree of effectiveness through intelligent rationalization and restructuring. The Organization is therefore continuing to play an important role in world affairs, which is in no small measure attributable to the enlightened leadership of the Secretary- General. As this millennium draws to a close, we find ourselves in a post-cold-war era of globalism. The doctrine that the general pursuit of economic and financial prosperity will necessarily lead to open markets, greater international movement of resources, capital and labour is deeply entrenched. As we progress, it is claimed, this global system will produce freer societies and expanding middle classes, which, in turn, will exert pressure for political freedoms. In the end, it is also claimed, we can all expect the spread of peace as countries become more interdependent and economically integrated, for free societies do not go to war, at least with each other. This model calls for the ascendancy of a more efficient private sector and a reduced role for government. For developing countries, the pursuit of maximum economic flexibility has been accompanied by a massive reorganization of legal, social, financial, economic, political and institutional structures — or, as it is known, structural adjustment. The cost of these changes has been considerable, not only in financial terms, but also in human and social terms as well. As the social safety net in many countries consists of government jobs and services, downsizing government has meant considerable suffering, and often with a political price to be paid. Thanks to the spread of technology, particularly in the communications sector, it is now possible for companies and organizations to operate on a global scale and to enter virtually any local market of their choosing. Consequently, economic domination has shifted to the large, transnational corporations and financial conglomerates, which are increasingly the prime movers in most economic systems. Predictably, the poor and unprepared are increasingly isolated and marginalized. It is therefore not surprising that there is a mounting and widespread backlash against the destructive effects of this global juggernaut. The old market economy system following the Second World War — the Marshall Plan era — survived because there were few persistent losers. Everyone got something from the system and could claim ownership. We cannot say that today, for the roster of losers is mounting ominously. This is a distressing omen for the new millennium, made all the more tragic and infuriating because of the abundance of possible remedies. We can make the system work effectively and beneficially if the will is there. But at present the international community lacks determination and a sense of compassion. That does not bode well for mankind. Globalization and the rapid expansion and integration of the international economy have undoubtedly brought immense benefits to many countries and positive changes in the living conditions of many individuals. However, many countries and their populations, particularly in the developing world, are increasingly facing marginalization and hopelessness because they are not able to cope with the rapid pace of integration. The least developed countries in particular require special attention so that they do not slip further into the abyss of poverty and disintegration. Clearly, the Horn of Africa has had far more than its share of wars, natural disasters, collapsing States, economic decline and wasted national and human potential. For Djibouti, survival alone has consistently presented an enormous challenge. However, our nation today is stronger and more unified than ever before. We owe this to the wisdom, perseverance and foresight of our first President and father of the nation, my mentor, The Honourable Hassan Gouled Aptidon, who voluntarily retired a few months ago — a praiseworthy decision. He forged a nation and gave it purpose and strength. His enlightened leadership enabled us to remain at peace, while sensitive to our region's difficulties and needs. I am proud to follow in the footsteps of this great soul, and I am determined to safeguard his legacy and our democratic traditions and institutions. Djibouti will continue to work for good governance, democracy and independence, with respect for human rights. We will continue, true to our cultural heritage, to give sanctuary to people displaced by conflicts in our region, despite the severe strain this puts on our meagre resources. Africa has many hopeful spots, but there remain a number of disturbing conflicts involving nations, countless rebel and separatist movements and factions. Democratic elections took place a few months ago in two major States of sub-Saharan Africa — Nigeria and South Africa — and in smaller ones, such as Djibouti, while in most of the major conflicts ravaging the continent ceasefires or peace processes are under way. In looking over these developments, what can we reasonably expect? What must we strive to bring about? Our first priority must be to bring conflict and destruction to an end. That is why ceasefires, the withdrawal of combatants, disarmament, the settlement of conflicts, and the resettlement of displaced persons are important priorities for Africa. As conflicts rage in the heart of the continent, a dangerous new tendency has begun to appear. Conflicts are no longer localized or fought between two clear adversaries, but attract a growing legion of participants 2 with divergent agendas. It is depressing to witness the massive loss of life, the wanton destruction and the virtual collapse of societies. We are therefore relieved that the brutal conflict in Sierra Leone is at last resolved. Besides Somalia, perhaps the most worrying conflict now is Angola, where again outside actors appear to be playing significant roles. We therefore naturally support the call of the Secretary-General, who in his report on conflict in Africa called for a reversal of the international community's great reluctance in recent years to assume the political and financial responsibilities associated with deploying peacekeeping operations. We must also do everything we can to augment the United Nations capacity in humanitarian assistance, as well as in post-conflict peace-building. None of this, though, should absolve Africa of the need to come together to strengthen its own crisis response and peacekeeping capability, through the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and subregional organizations. Last year, in his address to this Assembly, my predecessor noted the sudden and surprising outbreak of massive hostilities between our neighbours, Ethiopia and Eritrea. This has been the cause of much anguish, apprehension and instability in the Horn of Africa. The loss of life on both sides is among the greatest ever witnessed between African States. Persistent efforts by the OAU and various countries, including Djibouti, have proved to be in vain. Ethiopia is presently seeking further clarification on the “technical arrangements” proposed by the OAU, and we hope that the ongoing efforts will produce the desired breakthrough. If a ceasefire does not take effect and agreement is not reached, the destruction and further loss of life will once again be deplorable. Years will be needed to repair the damage done to ethnic tolerance and trust in the Horn of Africa. We therefore support the OAU, which is demonstrating its tenacity and foresight in trying to bring about a lasting resolution of this crisis. Clearly, Eritrea needs to be a good neighbour to all its neighbours. Djibouti is now facing a relentless threat of destabilization through incursions and landmines, as well as the training and arming of disaffected elements. Rather than being confined to Ethiopia, hostilities have spread to practically every country in the Horn. We sincerely believe that Eritrea would gain more as an equal partner in the collective regional efforts to fashion a comprehensive peace, augment development and address the challenges of environmental degradation, rather than pursuing a policy of confrontation and senseless and reckless destabilization. The renewed dialogue between the Palestinians and the new Israeli leader appears to offer a promising opportunity for charting a new course in the Middle East. The most urgent need is to restore confidence — a task that will involve winning over the hearts and minds of Palestinians jaded by the cynicism of successive Israeli Governments. The timely implementation of the provisions of the recent agreement should help build the necessary confidence by making the parties see reason. Advantage must be taken of the current momentum, despite the efforts of hostile factions. Now that a time-table has been set for the consideration of final-status issues such as borders, settlements, the status of Jerusalem, refugees, water and statehood for Palestine, the outcome will depend on the will and commitment of both sides. The road should also be cleared for a settlement of the Golan Heights question and for the Israeli withdrawal from Lebanon, in accordance with Security Council resolution 425 (1978). The crippling sanctions imposed on Iraq almost a decade ago have taken a heavy toll on the population, particularly on the elderly, women and children. We urge the international community to undertake a realistic review of these sanctions with a view to lifting them altogether. The Arab world and the world as a whole have recently lost several remarkable and pragmatic leaders. King Hussein of Jordan, the Amir of Bahrain and King Hassan II of Morocco are no longer with us. Although we all feel a sense of loss at their premature demise, we have every confidence their legacies will live on. Mr. President, I beg your indulgence, as I would now like to speak at length about the tragedy in Somalia. For nearly a decade now we have been witnessing the inexorable disintegration of Somalia. With their country racked by violence and lacking a government, the Somali people are being denied their basic human rights. It is imperative that every effort be made to alleviate the suffering of the millions of Somalis who have been living a precarious existence for a decade now. Housing and water are alarmingly scarce. Rampant lawlessness prevails, the country is at a political impasse, and its future is bleak. If no concrete steps are taken, the result 3 will be continued misery and despair, as well as the continued destabilization of Somalia's neighbours. This unique situation, I would even say this tragedy, ought to be given priority — the kind of serious consideration that is given to other tragedies. We strongly believe that international and regional stability depend to a large extent on the domestic stability of all of the States Members of this Organization. It is tragic indeed that the international community is unwilling to acknowledge this reality, simply because, it seems, it has no vital national interests at stake there. So the warlords are left to fight it out until a victor emerges and a degree of order is restored. Political will on the part of the international community can bring peace to Somalia, too. Because of pervasive indifference and a lack of resolve, vision and action on our part, Somalia is crumbling. It is no longer a politically viable entity. Indeed, the continued anarchy in that country is indicative of the failure of global governance to serve poor countries in the developing world. The Somali people know that only too well. A decade of violence, hunger, disease and uncertainty has given rise to unparalleled levels of despair. All Somalis, it is safe to say, are living below the poverty line, and the devastating civil war shows no signs of abating in most parts of the country. Somalia could easily become a magnet for criminal elements, drug traffickers and terrorists as well as a dumping ground of dangerous toxic wastes. Overfishing by foreigners of Somalia's unprotected waters is also a cause of great concern to us. The latest comprehensive report of the Secretary- General on Somalia accurately notes that the country has degenerated into a black hole of anarchy, with no national government or attributes of statehood. The principal victims of this senseless conflict are an entire generation of Somali children, who are being denied access to education. The United Nations intervened in Somalia in 1992 with all the right intentions: to restore peace, stability, and law and order. In this respect, it was entrusted with assisting the Somali people in rebuilding their economy and their social and political life; restoring their institutional structures; achieving national political reconciliation; and recreating a Somali state based on democratic governance. Regrettably, those laudable intentions came to naught following the termination of the United Nations Operation in Somalia, due to the lack of cooperation from the Somali factions over security issues, and despite the exceptional circumstances, in particular the absence of a government in Somalia. Since the end of the United Nations operation, two conferences have given rise to a certain optimism — the Ethiopian-sponsored Sodere conference and the Cairo conference, sponsored by the Egyptian Government. However, both conferences succeeded only in highlighting the divisions among the warlords on the one hand and the interested countries on the other. Several countries and organizations have worked tirelessly to restore some measure of governance in Somalia. The focus, though, has always remained on bringing together the feuding warlords in order to assist them in reaching an agreement that would end the stalemate. But seeking a lasting settlement through the warlords, as has repeatedly and unambiguously been demonstrated throughout the conflict, has proved to be wishful thinking; uncertainty reigns, and the culture of impunity persists. Lately, we have seen the formation of all sorts of political and military alliances across factional lines in a bid to pacify the country, but such initiatives are often greeted with scepticism or even criticism by other factions and even by certain countries. Clearly, not a single factional leader can claim national support or acceptance, because Somali civil society has grown cynical about a political game devoid of sincerity, vision and substance. Everybody agrees in recognizing that the warlords can offer nothing that would lead us to believe that they will ever agree on a lasting settlement, much less the implementation of conclusions agreed between them. The people are tired of false rhetoric and deception, as they become poorer and their future becomes bleaker every day. Even beyond Somalia, the warlords pose a potential threat. They need to be resisted, for there is the very real problem of a “contagion” effect, whereby chronic instability in one country in the Horn might prove to be a real threat to its neighbours, if it is not contained or eliminated within a reasonable period of time. Liberia’s seven-year war, with its child soldiers and unspeakable atrocities against civilians, helped set a tragic pattern that was repeated in Sierra Leone. Obviously, already inundated with weapons, Somalia hardly needs external involvement by way of arms supplies or proxy confrontations, but that is precisely what is now taking place in that country. For all of us, this situation only increases our worry about Somalia’s future. 4 The challenge that we now face is therefore of establishing an authority to fill the void that is continuously being exploited by the warlords. Convening more conferences that always yield the same results, as has been the case over the last 10 years is not the remedy. If we continue to entertain the notion of holding yet more of the so-called national reconciliation conferences indefinitely, or into the next decade, in search of peace in Somalia, then we are, in effect, saying that Somali civil society is condemned to an uncertain future, because the international community is not prepared to protect it from criminal elements that usurped power. Despite the “legitimacy” wrongly accorded them by the international community, they have never agreed, and will never agree, on anything. Trying to appease the warlords has never succeeded and never will. The Somalis, too, have human rights; they have the same right as others to be protected from oppressive, malicious and power-hungry individuals who continually and freely move from one capital to another, raising funds and securing armaments. Although these individuals are responsible for the destruction of their country, for the deaths of tens of thousands of innocent civilians, countless numbers of casualties and for the paralysis that immobilizes the country to this day, the international community did not intervene in Somalia, “to defend humanitarian principles and to stand up for the values of civilization and justice”, as one Western leader stated in justifying the Kosovo operation. The United Nations Operation in Somalia was also saddled with ambiguities in its mandate and there was never an intention to rid the country of the warlords. Furthermore, Kosovo represents a clear case of determined and vigorous action to achieve a specific objective — to drive the marauding Serb army from Kosovo. Furthermore, the United Nations operation in Kosovo is vested with unprecedented power, because the circumstances warrant the exercise of nearly sovereign powers. It has authority over the territory, the people of Kosovo, the legislative and the executive powers of Kosovo, including the administration of the judiciary system. That mandate is a far cry from that in Somalia; but then Somalia is not Kosovo. We all agree that the current level of fragmentation cannot be allowed to continue. Many ideas have been floated in the past, but none of these will succeed or even survive as long as the warlords have the luxury of determining the fate of Somalia. Indeed, they continue to exercise a veto over the restoration of peace and national authority. The question remains, for how many more years will Somali society have to wait until the warlords accept a power-sharing coalition? Until a final victor emerges? For ever? Liberia was reconstituted through strong international efforts. Warlords of varying levels of power and support eventually submitted to international pressures and accepted independent, internationally supervised democratic elections, followed by the implementation of agreements during a year of transition carried out under the leadership of an individual — in fact, a woman — not affiliated with any of the warlords. The elections were described as “free and fair”, and Liberians were thus able to bid farewell at last to a destructive and intractable conflict. This was indeed an exemplary process in which the Economic Community of West African States, supported by the United Nations, played a leading role. Since the outbreak of the Somali crisis some 10 years ago, the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity, the League of Arab States, the Organization of the Islamic Conference, the Intergovernmental Authority on Development and our subregional organization, as well as many countries, both within and outside the region, have tried to salvage that nation from mayhem, anarchy and political paralysis through all kinds of conferences, meetings and contacts with and among the warlords. Sadly, however, the warlords have repeatedly demonstrated their unwillingness to heed the international community’s call to put the good of the country above their individual lust for power and control. We have to ask ourselves, as leaders of the world assembled here, what should be done about Somalia. The time has come, in our view, for the international community to take a decision to break the long silence on this forgotten conflict by supporting bold, decisive measures against the warlords. That is why, after deep reflection and after taking into account all relevant factors, I felt compelled to set out before the Assembly today a series of proposals and phased measures that would be the expression of our outrage, frustration and impatience with the status quo perpetuated by the warlords. The first phase has to do with the fact that the warlords, as I have described with great sorrow, have failed on every count during this long, intractable civil war. Thus, I am loath to support yet another conference held for these men who have completely lost the 5 confidence of their people. It is time Somali civil society — including intellectuals, artists and mothers — assumed responsibility. The Somali people has matured politically during these years of suffering and knows what it needs: economic prosperity and social progress in a context of democracy, liberty and peace. In line with the wishes of the Somali people, Djibouti is embarking upon measures intended; to enhance and strengthen Somali’s confidence in themselves, in each other and in their common destiny; to make a real contract of trust and progress between the actors of economic, social, cultural and intellectual life; and to implement with determination, serenity and equity the work of rehabilitation, political, economic and administrative normalization and the promotion of the culture of dialogue between the Somali people in order to create a lasting environment of dialogue for the emergence of a new generation of decision makers. In order for Djibouti to have confidence in the Somali people’s responsibility for its future, Somali citizens must finally be given the right to speak out so that they can restore the essential values of liberty, truth, justice, responsibility and transparency. By working for and basing themselves on Somali civil society through the holding of a genuine reconciliation conference, the representatives of the Somali people, including the warlords, will be committing themselves to the path of peace and national reconciliation. We seek a Somalia led and governed by the best people drawn from all generations, in particular people who inspire confidence because of their commitment to law, justice, freedom and peace; those who will govern with a view to fulfilling a mandate that can be withdrawn at any time in accordance with the requirements of the common good; those who do not think only of profiting by the misfortune of their brethren to gain a scrap of power no matter what the cost to the Somali nation. Somalia needs those men and women who in spite of everything have retained their ethical values, the force of their personalities and their intellectual and spiritual dynamism: free men and women who are ready to offer their fellow Somalis a credible way out of their tragedy that will be consistent with the cultural heritage and collective memory of the Somali people. The reconciliation conference must give rise to agreement and commitment by all Somalis to the following principles. First, there must be acceptance of the basic principle that the Somali people is free to exercise its democratic right to select its own regional and national leaders in accordance with a time-frame of its own choosing. Secondly, the warlords must agree to convert their factions into political parties that can compete in elections if they choose to do so. Thirdly, the warlords must agree to the complete and verifiable disarmament of their fighters. Fourthly, the warlords must submit to the primacy of law. Fifthly, the warlords must accede to the international community’s request to participate in the restoration of normalcy, law and order, and a framework for governance. And finally, a national police force must be established, one that will represent the entire Somali community and that can incorporate the various militias, which will have the opportunity to participate in it. Here I should say that some countries in or outside of the Horn of Africa, which in one way or another are fueling the conflict in Somalia, must reconsider their positions. These countries are pursuing narrow national interests by supporting the profusion of warlords in various ways, and they are only prolonging the agony and privation of Somali civil society. I call on all actors in the civil war to review their priorities with a view to achieving peace in Somalia. It is time that they controlled themselves: high time. When they can agree that the warlords fully support or accept the parameters of phase one, the Organization of African Unity (OAU), the United Nations and the countries of the region must work together to help Somalia in its transition to democracy. As in Guinea- Bissau, the United Nations should establish a post-conflict peace-building office in Somalia to initiate projects in support of this process, including by coordinating and monitoring the holding of legislative and presidential elections. I turn now to phase two. If the warlords place insurmountable obstacles on the road to peace, the international community will have to shoulder its responsibility and demonstrate robustly that it cannot let the persecution of Somali civilians continue indefinitely without taking action. The warlords must in that case be prosecuted for crimes against humanity: for abuse of power, especially through the unjustified persecution of civilians; for flagrant violations of human rights; and for having caused the collapse of the State and the destruction of their country. With their unabated violence and their erratic behaviour, the warlords have stolen the childhood from Somalia’s young people; they have 6 deprived their nation of hope and of a future; they have condemned their people to a precarious existence. Moreover, harsh and targeted punishment must be meted out to warlords who do not agree to the international community’s demand that peace and a framework for governance be restored in Somalia: they must be confined to their bleak and battered areas; they must be banned from freely traveling abroad to further their sinister designs; all foreign support and all assistance, whether monetary or material, must be banned; and all their assets, in all forms and wherever they are located, must be frozen. Turning to phase three, if the measures set out in the first two phases cannot achieve the objectives because of obstruction by the warlords, we would be faced with two difficult choices: We could continue to remain indifferent and to do nothing about the decade-old siege of Somalia; or organizations to which Somalia belongs, first and foremost the Organization of African Unity and the League of Arab States, with support from the United Nations and from other countries, could decide that they were obliged to resolve the situation by using all necessary means on the principle that no State — or criminal warlord in this case — may continue indefinitely to commit flagrant violations of human rights and to hold a country hostage forever. Those are the critical scenarios we need to discuss, because, however much one might wish to forget Somalia, it will not just go away. We must do something to remedy the situation, and we must do it as quickly as possible. Let me reiterate that we must put an end to the complacency we have displayed towards the warlords, and that Somali civil society must be more closely involved in any future process. It is important to note that the situation is not the same in all regions of the country; anarchy does not prevail everywhere. Somalia has many contrasting faces depending on the region. While disorder reigns in areas of the centre and the South, northern regions such as the self-proclaimed states of Somaliland and Puntland are enjoying relative peace and stability. Those two areas fortunately escaped most of the conflict that ravaged the country in the 1990s. They have made a great effort to strengthen security and, with very little outside assistance, have carried out admittedly limited economic reconstruction programmes. The international community has thus far been wary of providing meaningful assistance, on the pretext that the political and security situation makes it impossible. As we meet here today, communities in many towns and regions are organizing to determine their own future. This trend towards decentralization or self-administration is based on the strong determination of the Somalis not to succumb, but rather to survive. The international community is duty-bound to provide economic support for these regions and communities that have achieved relative peace, security and the beginnings of development: near- normalcy. The international community should reward those who are trying to provide their people with basic services, including an institutional framework and mine- clearance efforts. I am grateful to the Secretary-General, who has placed the question of Somalia high on the international agenda, and to United Nations agencies such as the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Children’s Fund, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the World Food Programme and their partners, who have provided food and care to the Somali people despite the risks for the safety of their personnel. But these praiseworthy efforts seem to be showing some fatigue, even frustration, because of inadequate support from donors, as reflected in the lukewarm response to the 1999 United Nations appeal. We urge the international community to continue to help the Somali people during these times, which are particularly difficult due in part to the long drought, further exacerbated by the ongoing civil war.  ﻿I join other delegations in congratulating you, Mr. President, on your election as President of the General Assembly. Your experience and diplomatic skills will undoubtedly guide us successfully through the fifty-fourth session. I would also like to express our gratitude to your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, who displayed such competence and ability in conducting our work during the past year. We would also like to express our deep sense of satisfaction and gratitude to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his incessant diplomatic intervention to help resolve conflicts in various parts of the globe. May I also take this opportunity to offer our most sincere congratulations to the three new Members of this Organization, the Republic of Nauru, the Kingdom of Tonga and the Republic of Kiribati. I should also add that Malta already cooperates closely with these three new Members through our joint membership of the Commonwealth. For over half a century the United Nations has been instrumental in fostering a culture of partnership among States. The foundation and survival of a universal Organization entrusted with the maintenance of international peace and security and the promotion of social justice, freedom and human rights is an unprecedented achievement in the history of mankind. Undeniably, great strides have been made by this Organization in helping forge swords into ploughshares through enhanced cooperation between its Member States. We have striven individually and collectively, painfully at times and imperfectly at others, towards a process of political, social, economic and technological evolution. Globalization has become a central concept in the way we view the world. Interdependence has consequently become the norm. Overshadowing such progress, however, are the armed conflicts, economic imbalances and social dislocation that we still face. Events in our days show that gross violations of human rights and disregard for humanitarian principles continue to plague us. The atrocities that human beings are capable of inflicting on one another defy the noble aspirations that inspired the birth of our Organization. The irony of such a situation cannot be lost on anyone. Even less can the tragedy of such a predicament be ignored. Vicious armed conflicts, such as those we have been witnessing in parts of Africa and in the Balkans, not to mention the atrocities recently perpetrated in East Timor, continue to destroy an untold number of lives, disrupting entire societies, traumatizing tens of thousands of men, women and children and diverting precious resources away from development. The international community cannot afford to be complacent about the humanitarian crises that we are 23 witnessing today. It is incumbent on each of us to rise to the challenge of securing a world free from deprivation, fear and oppression. Strengthening the United Nations to become better equipped to address contemporary needs and to meet the challenges of the future thus becomes more urgent. The role of the United Nations in the promotion of preventive diplomacy must increasingly assume particular importance if, collectively, we are to defuse and resolve potentially destructive situations. Peace and security are intimately intertwined with development and prosperity. Too often, lack of development precipitates conflict. Promoting development helps prevent wars and acts as a means of creating channels of cooperation within, as well as among, nations. This was the essential message emanating from the International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo and the Copenhagen World Summit for Social Development. It was a commitment to consolidate the partnership of nations, a commitment restated and underscored during the review conferences held within the fifty-third session of the General Assembly. Democracy, good governance, respect for human rights and the rule of law are essential foundations for the attainment of peace and development and for upholding the dignity of the human person. Where these are absent, our efforts to implement post-conflict peace-building, rehabilitation and reconstruction programmes in war-torn areas must be intensified. The importance of cementing ceasefire agreements with stable political and economic institutions, while simultaneously creating partnerships between Governments and civil society, cannot be underestimated. One of the main thrusts of the work of the United Nations has been aimed at the equitable and long-lasting reform of the Security Council, especially given the expanded membership of the Organization. It is in the interest of all to find a solution to the Council's reform that will ensure its smooth functioning, transparency and enhanced relevance. While the root causes of conflicts are complex, the illegal proliferation and trafficking of weapons clearly has a destabilizing effect on society and only serves to prolong conflicts. Increased global efforts are warranted to monitor and control the illicit transfer of small arms and light weapons. The emerging global consensus on the issue is encouraging. Malta looks forward to the eventual convening of an international conference on the illicit arms trade in all its aspects. Addressing this disruptive phenomenon becomes more urgent when it is compounded by its complex linkages with other equally destabilizing activities, such as international crime, drug trafficking and terrorism. Responsibility for the plight of peoples cannot be shirked by national Governments. Accountability by individuals for their actions must be enforced. The international community's outrage at shocking, massive violations of human rights has found expression in the Statute of the International Criminal Court. The adoption of the Statute last year in Rome constituted an important milestone. It is Malta's hope that it is only a matter of time before the Court begins to function. Heinous crimes against humanity are an affront to the intrinsic values of civilization. They cannot be tolerated. Likewise, the shameless disregard for human rights that have been enshrined in various international instruments cannot go unheeded. Effective protection of those rights should not be allowed to fall victim to excuses of national sovereignty. This is even more compelling given that only last year we commemorated the fiftieth anniversary of the signing of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The international community has made great headway in the way it deals with the world's resources to safeguard the heritage of future generations. Since it joined the Organization 35 years ago, Malta has played an active role in this field. It would be remiss of me today not to pay tribute to Professor Arvid Pardo, Malta's first Permanent Representative to the United Nations, who sadly passed away recently. His diplomatic skills and judicious acumen, as well as his vision, were instrumental in developing the concept of the common heritage of mankind. This concept, so ably launched by Professor Pardo on behalf of the Malta Government, was the key to the process that eventually led to the adoption of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. In a similar vein, during the last session, my delegation was active in promoting the idea of a better and more substantive discussion on oceans through improved coordination among the various organs dealing with the subject. In this regard, it is our hope that a workable solution to this issue will be reached. Malta's readiness to play an active and positive role in the furtherance of international peace and cooperation has led to the reactivation of our application for membership in the European Union. In September of last year, following elections and a change in Government, 24 Malta reactivated its application, which had been frozen for the previous two years. The application had been submitted in 1990, and by the time it was suspended in 1996, Malta was widely considered as a prime candidate for early membership of the European Union. The 1998 reactivation was therefore generally seen, both within and outside Malta, as a resumption of unfinished business, rather than as a new beginning. The contractual basis of our present relationship with the Union remains the Association Agreement signed in 1970, as subsequently amplified and amended. Until it is superseded by membership, we expect this Agreement to remain in force and to continue to be complemented by additional measures in both traditional and new areas of cooperation, including the areas of justice and home affairs. We see our objective to join the European Union as the most appropriate response to Malta's historical and cultural heritage, as well as to the economic, social and security requirements of our national development. The accession negotiations that we hope to be conducting in the near future will be guided by this perception. The outcome of these negotiations will then be submitted to the judgement of the Maltese people in a referendum. Since independence in 1964, Malta has been steadfastly committed to the critical role that multilateral cooperation, as enshrined in the United Nations Charter, is increasingly playing in the endeavour towards progress, justice and stability within and among nations. Over the years, notwithstanding constraints imposed by its size and resources, Malta has engaged itself in many United Nations-sponsored initiatives related to the promotion of human rights, economic and social development, disarmament, the peaceful settlement of disputes and safeguarding the environment. As members of the European Union, we expect to find increased opportunities, as well as to benefit from an increased capacity to pursue these and related objectives at both the global and regional level. This certainty springs from our conviction that the European Union is at the forefront of endeavours to strengthen international understanding and cooperation. Its policies towards enlargement and regional cooperation, the promotion of economic and social development, conflict resolution and peacekeeping provide a constant gauge of its relevance in this regard. Malta views the enlargement of the European Union not so much as an option but rather as a fulfilment. Each enlargement step constitutes fulfilment for the Union itself, and that contributes to the completion of an historical process that reverses the age-old conflict and the fragmentation of the European continent. It is also a fulfilment for a candidate country like Malta in that membership assures it of a continuing role in the political and economic life of the continent where most of its history and culture were, and continue to be, forged. The unfolding of events in Europe over the last decade highlights this fundamental dimension of the Union's enlargement process. As they emerged from political suppression and economic stagnation, the Central and Eastern European States immediately defined their national aspirations within the framework of European integration. For its part, the European Union recognized that the objective of membership for all the Central and Eastern European States was a vital ingredient in sustaining stability and progress throughout the continent in the shorter and the longer term. Significantly, in spite of the complexities involved, there is already a marked readiness by the Union to contribute both assistance and funds towards reconstruction in the Balkans while simultaneously pursuing enlargement through Central and Eastern Europe and with the two Mediterranean islands — Malta and Cyprus. Cooperation with the neighbouring regions and around the world is, for the European Union, an indispensable accompaniment to enlargement. Be it in the traditional transatlantic domain, on the still-evolving Eastern border or on its historical southern, Mediterranean border, the Union provides a constant and credible reassurance of the outward-looking dimension embedded in the European integration process. Straddling, as it does, both the horizontal and the vertical axes of the Mediterranean, Malta attaches particular importance to the promotion of cooperation in this area. It is as much for regional and global geostrategic reasons as it is in our own national security interests for the Mediterranean to be considered as a meeting place, rather than as a dividing line between peoples and cultures. Of particular importance to us is the Euro- Mediterranean partnership launched in 1995 by the European Union in Barcelona. This partnership provides strong support for our belief that membership in the Union will reinforce Malta's traditional role in the 25 promotion of Mediterranean security and cooperation. One of Malta's contributions to the Union will be the added insight into, and the commitment to, Euro-Mediterranean cooperation that Malta will bring with it. At the regional level, as much as at the broader international level, Malta sees its membership in the European Union as an element of further involvement in the process of multilateral cooperation for peace and prosperity in the Mediterranean. Malta has welcomed, and is wholeheartedly involved in, the Barcelona partnership because of its intrinsic merits in promoting a concrete and effective programme of cooperation in the Mediterranean. In this regard, at their last meeting in Stuttgart, the foreign ministers of the Euro- Mediterranean partnership agreed to reinforce comprehensive stability in the region through the conclusion of the Euro-Mediterranean Charter for Peace and Stability — an initiative in which Malta has been active from the outset and which it is keen to see take shape. Despite the many challenges faced by the Mediterranean, it is our firm view that lasting solutions may be found. We sincerely believe that an early settlement of the Cyprus question along the lines of the relevant Security Council resolutions can be achieved. Malta has been encouraged by the positive overtures signalled by the major protagonists in the Middle East peace process in recent months. What appeared to be for so long an intractable problem has been slowly but steadily unfolding towards the path of reconciliation and peace. True cooperation within the region demands that the spirit of reconciliation prevail. Recent events — most especially the Wye II Agreement — carried forward by all those working for peace in the region bode well for continued dialogue and cooperation between the parties of the region. It is in this light that we hail the progress achieved on the question of Lockerbie and the resulting suspension of sanctions on Libya. The satisfaction expressed recently by both the Security Council and the European Union General Affairs Council in respect of positive developments in Libya also augurs well for the inclusion of Libya in the Euro-Mediterranean process as soon as it adopts the Barcelona acquis. We welcome this development. May all these efforts lead to widespread cooperation for the Mediterranean as a whole, bringing peace and prosperity for its people in the years to come. To many the new millennium is a time of promise and expectation, a period of change and transition. Yet, to many others — indeed too many — it is a time of difficulty and trepidation, of unfulfilled promises. Poised as we are on the brink of a new era, it is vital that the United Nations prevails to safeguard the well-being and prosperity of future generations. Even our best efforts can be brought to nothing in an instant, by the sheer force of nature. The recent devastating earthquakes that hit the peoples of Turkey, Greece and Taiwan have galvanized the international community. Shocked by the loss of so many lives, the displacement of whole communities and the pain of thousands, the international response to alleviate the suffering was generous and expeditious. It was yet another instance where the expression of solidarity towards the victims of a natural disaster unveiled the human face of the international community. That same spirit also inspires us when challenged by man-made disasters. It was that same spirit that gave birth to the United Nations. We acknowledge that the United Nations cannot be the perfect panacea for the ills of the world. Yet it remains the unique platform from which to promote and protect the inherent rights of all peoples to live in peace, freedom and dignity. By focusing on human security in its manifold dimensions — political, economic and social — the United Nations will continue to be a beacon of hope to all nations. The General Assembly has always shown that it is fully conscious of the need to invest in the future — an investment that also requires the consolidation of a culture of peace. This was the essence of the resolutions that proclaimed the year 2000 as the International Year for the Culture of Peace and the next decade as the International Decade for a Culture of Peace and Non-violence for the Children of the World. It is our fervent hope that the Millennium Assembly next year will generate the necessary political will and solidarity to ensure that our efforts on the international scene bear fruit to safeguard the values on which this Organization was founded. We must move the process of introspection and deliberation forward to a process of committed implementation and action. Strong political will and conviction are needed to fulfil our common goals. 26 We should not aim for short-term remedies, but should rather pool our collective efforts in order to achieve long-lasting solutions to the challenges we face today — the eve of a new era. This is Malta's pledge for the new millennium. This is what we aim to ensure — that our efforts, both at the national and international level will be achieved.I wish first to congratulate you warmly, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. This does honour to your country, Namibia, and is a source of joy and satisfaction to all of Africa, and particularly to my country, Mali. You may count on the full support of my delegation, on behalf of which it is my honour to address the General Assembly today. I am convinced that with your talent and your experience as an estimable diplomat you will guide the work of the Assembly to a successful conclusion. I wish also to take this opportunity to convey to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Didier Opertti, our satisfaction at the commitment and skill with which he guided the work of the Assembly at its fifty-third session. Let me also reaffirm the gratitude of the Government of Mali to the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, for the determination and wisdom he has shown in the quest for solutions to the central concerns of the international community. The fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly is taking place at the dawn of the third millennium, at a time when the gap between the developed and the developing worlds is growing ever larger. Imbalances in 9 the world economy, the unequal distribution of wealth, poverty, grave and massive violations of human rights, massacres and conflicts of every kind pose a serious threat to international stability. Despite significant progress in many areas, the United Nations continues to face daunting challenges. It must formulate a collective approach with shared responsibility and greater, more effective solidarity to bring about the economic cooperation that is indispensable for lasting peace and security for all. In that context, many and varied challenges face Mali, Africa, the world at large, and the United Nations at the end of the twentieth century, such as debt, development financing, security including disarmament and international terrorism, democracy, human rights, international migration and United Nations reform. Last year we spoke out from this rostrum against a globalization dominated by market forces and a financial approach, and in favour of a globalization based on sustainable human development. That is the real challenge, and our growing conviction is that we can resolve all present imbalances if, through renewed, responsible and candid political dialogue, we tackle them with a global and unified vision, with commitment to genuine partnership, and with a sense of shared, equal responsibility in the building of a better world, a world for mankind. That is the approach we must take to addressing the problems of developing countries: indebtedness, their integration as real actors in the world economy, and development financing. The problem of developing-country indebtedness must continue to be a focus of the attention of the international community with a view to finding a lasting solution that will be acceptable to all. To be sure, the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt (HIPC) Initiative and the initiative adopted at the Cologne summit of the Group of Seven in June 1999 were important steps. But, because it absorbs more than a third of the export income of developing countries and because debt-servicing costs imperil the future of generations to come, debt is an insurmountable obstacle to any development effort. The debt burden must not merely be lightened; debts must be cancelled. Without playing down any responsibility here, debt cancellation has become necessary in order to enable the efforts and sacrifices made by developing countries to yield their full benefits for their peoples. Debt cancellation, along with a new, more rational debt policy based on the productive capacities of these countries, would lay the foundations for true, sustainable development financing. Long seen as an act of generosity by the rich towards the poor, development assistance is now viewed as a tangible expression of a solidarity that is indispensable. It has significantly declined in recent years, and we must do everything possible to reverse that trend in order to better meet the financing needs of developing countries. My country, Mali — which has already enacted significant political, economic and structural reforms — hopes that special attention will be given to the situation of African countries in any consideration of this matter. I appeal to developed countries completely to fulfil their commitment to increase official development assistance, to build up our economic capacities in the areas of processing and marketing our commodities, and to pay proper prices for our products and facilitate market access. The current state of affairs demands a new partnership based on an acknowledgement that development financing is a shared responsibility, which should be reflected in more equitable burden-sharing among donors. Here, the high-level meeting on development financing is of crucial importance. My delegation believes that that meeting should be seen in the two-fold context of follow-up to the major summits and international conferences of the 1990s and of the General Assembly’s Agenda for Development. More than half a century after the creation of the United Nations, there is no further need to prove its relevance and contribution to the disarmament agenda and to building international peace and security. Here I stress the particular importance that Mali attaches to disarmament in general and to micro-disarmament in particular. The establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones on the basis of arrangements freely entered into among the States of the region concerned, and the extension of such zones to all regions of the world, will make a significant contribution to international peace and security. In that connection, I would recall that Mali has ratified the African Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone Treaty — the Pelindaba Treaty — to manifest its support for the initiative to make Africa a nuclear-weapon-free zone. However, let us make no mistake about it, what today seriously threatens peace, the security of women, men and children in Africa are small arms and anti- personnel mines. As we take stock of the progress made in combating the proliferation of small arms since the fifty-third session, while we appreciate the efforts of the United 10 Nations Panel of Governmental Experts, we totally support the appeal for action adopted by the International Conference on Sustainable Disarmament for Sustainable Development, held in Brussels on 12 and 13 October 1998. We should welcome the historic decision of the member countries of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), on the initiative of Mali, to declare a moratorium on the export, import and production of small arms starting on 1 November 1998 and lasting for three years, a moratorium that is supported by a code of conduct. The meeting of the ECOWAS Ministers for Foreign Affairs that was held in Bamako in March 1999, defined the modalities for the implementation of the programme of coordination and assistance for security and development, and adopted a plan of action in nine priority areas to make the moratorium operational. These efforts deserve support from the international community so that there will be more overall cooperation to stem the proliferation of small arms and mitigate their devastating effects. Also, it is essential to support and extend this moratorium, to apply more strictly the laws and rules in force on arms transfers, to improve them and strengthen them at all levels and to back them up with codes of conduct. We also need to strengthen the capacity of States and increase coordination to deal with this phenomenon. But we also need to work on a progressive and effective international normative mechanism to control the circulation of small arms. We support very strongly the decision of the Assembly to convene an international conference on this question. Similarly, we must continue our work to free the world of the scourge of anti-personnel mines, and in particular we need to rid Africa of them, for they continue to sow death and mayhem even after conflicts end. We will achieve this by working in the context of the Maputo Declaration and seeing to it that everyone, without exception, ratifies and implements the Convention on the banning of anti-personnel mines. We ratified the Convention very early on, and our country has destroyed its meagre stock of these weapons, which we never in fact used. Mali is now adopting the national legislation required by the Convention on the banning of anti-personnel mines. In the last 50 years, peacekeeping operations have become an important tool for resolving conflicts by peaceful means and for promoting international peace and security. However, I would like to say that in and of themselves, they are not a solution to conflicts, but only special measures to prevent conflicts from getting worse pending a peaceful solution. Our constant quest for peace is reflected in our effective participation in peacekeeping operations and our total support for the Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution in Africa, to which the international community should give special attention. We ask the international community to mobilize quickly, in good time and to a greater extent to support the immediate implementation of hard-to-reach and always precarious peace agreements, as well as peace-building programmes. Mali also supports any measures to help create a climate allowing us to confront the causes of conflicts, which now relate primarily to underdevelopment, poor governance, deficiencies in democracy and bad cooperation policies. We pin great hopes on the decision of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) to make the year 2000 a year of peace and security in Africa, and we very much hope that the international community will give strong support to our continent in its prevention and peacekeeping efforts. I cannot fail to mention here the close link between security and development and the consequent need to finance security as an integral part of development action. Nor can I conclude without mentioning the ghastly, appalling question of child soldiers. President Konaré has said in this regard, “we have an absolute responsibility for the sad lot of child soldiers, which is not acceptable and cannot be borne; we must put an end to it by unambiguously condemning all those who use these children and who instil in them a culture of violence, thus sowing the seeds of the perpetuation of violence and conflicts ... We must work for a real culture of peace. The place of our children is in school; it is our responsibility to put an end to this heinous phenomenon by denouncing it and taking vigorous steps against it, including international criminal sanctions. Post-conflict programmes must include among their priorities the reintegration through education of child soldiers; and in a general way it must make education the heart of the strategy for building peace and sustainable development.” The decision to hold a special session of the General Assembly to follow-up to the World Summit for Children in 2001 coincides with the commemoration of the tenth anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. We must take that opportunity to hasten our attainment of the objectives that we have set for ourselves with regard to children. We have a unique responsibility towards them. The least we can do on the eve of the new millennium is to provide all boys and girls better health, schools and protection from wars and famines. Mali is staunchly committed to democracy and human rights. Observance of human, political, civil, economic, social and cultural rights is an integral part of economic prosperity, social equity and the promotion of peace and security. In this context, a certain number of minimum standards are necessary in any democracy based on law and respect for human rights. I am referring to values that we all deem to be fundamental and the observance of which we are committed to: rule of law, respect for human rights, a system of democratic government and the conditions for necessary changes of government in a republican and democratic system. In a democracy, this is the minimum that we must all, each and every one of us, consolidate, build and develop. The situation in the Middle East remains a source of concern, despite the revival of the peace process. I wish to reaffirm here the unreserved support of Mali for the just struggle of the Palestinian people as well as for a comprehensive just and lasting solution based on the relevant resolutions of the Security Council and the principle of land for peace. Turning now to the Lockerbie crisis, Mali, basing itself on the progress made in dealing with this question, appeals for the complete, immediate lifting of the sanctions that have been unjustly imposed on the fraternal people of the Libyan Arab Jamahirya, and I am pleased to renew to them the support and solidarity of the people of Mali. Likewise, we are still concerned at the humanitarian cost to civilians in other countries that have been unjustly targeted by sanctions. Security and stability are facing new threats, including the problem of drugs — which has become worse with globalization — organized crime, international terrorism, money-laundering and corruption. In the face of these threats and their adverse effects of them, the international community must step up its efforts to put in place the mechanisms necessary to eradicate them and cooperate better in order to combat them. In regard to international terrorism, Mali signed the African convention in Algiers, and we support the appeal of the OAU for the speedy conclusion of an international convention in order better to prevent terrorism and to combat it more effectively. Today, when mankind is preparing for a new millennium, it is essential to adapt the United Nations to the needs of our time. The challenges that we will be facing demand that we adopt appropriate measures now so that the next century will enjoy more peace and more justice in a new partnership based on solidarity among all nations. If the United Nations is to remain the gathering place in which all countries can make their voices heard to find solutions to problems that confront them, it must not be marginalized. Therefore, it is necessary today more than ever to review the functioning of the system of the Organization in order to adapt it to present and future circumstances. My delegation is convinced of the need to democratize further our Organization through a comprehensive restructuring of its main organs, particularly the Security Council, the composition of which reflects the state of the world as it was 50 years ago and which does not in any way reflect the political, economic and social realities of today’s or tomorrow’s world. In addition, my delegation reaffirms Africa’s demand for an equitable division among the two categories of seats. We call upon Member States to reinforce the prestige, the authority, the effectiveness and the legitimacy of the Council. This session gives the international community a unique opportunity to demonstrate once again that the United Nations is an active, dynamic institution, capable of confronting the major concerns of the world. In order to do this it must prove that, despite the sometimes discouraging complexity of the issues involved and the often divergent national interests of Member States, the Organization is capable of working with determination, creativity and effectiveness for the common good of all. This is what we aspire to. I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate you, Sir, on your well- deserved election to the presidency of the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly and to convey to you, on behalf of the people and Government of Guinea, my warmest congratulations. I am convinced that our Assembly stands to gain a great deal from your leadership and from your wealth of experience. I would like also to pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti of Uruguay, for his commendable efforts to advance the process of the reform of our Organization. Finally, allow me to convey my sincere congratulations and words of encouragement to Mr. Kofi Annan, who, since taking the helm of our Organization, has worked tirelessly to make of it a catalyst and a unique framework for nations to work together. We share that conviction and would like to assure him of our unflagging support in that respect. The present-day world is characterized by a rapid evolution that has taken the form of profound political, economic and social changes. Those changes have had an impact on peace, international security and development. The quest for peace and for a new and more equitable international order has become the major concern of our age. The United Nations cannot insulate itself from these changes. Its effectiveness will depend on its ability to re-adapt itself to today's realities. The reform of the United Nations, the maintenance of international peace and security, disarmament, the fight against poverty and the strengthening of international cooperation — all of these matters will require our attention and energy in the third millennium. I am certain, therefore, that the Assembly will agree that the events taking place today clearly show the need to reform the United Nations. All the arguments favour such a change as a means of strengthening the United Nations system and democratizing its main bodies, particular the Security Council, to make it into an authentic tool in the service peace and development for all. Our position on these issues is in accordance with that of the African Group as set forth at the thirty-fifth summit of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) in Algiers. The new make-up of the Security Council must fully reflect present-day realities through the equitable geographic representation of every region of the world. The increasing number of conflicts is undermining the foundations of international peace and security and dangerously compromising the development efforts of our States. In this respect, I am sure the Assembly agrees that there can be no development without a consistent political commitment on the part of our States to peace and disarmament. That is why my delegation believes that any sign of indifference or silence on the part of the international community when confronted with the spectre of violence and the use of weapons of mass destruction can prove fatal for international peace and security. As in the past, the Republic of Guinea can neither remain silent nor conceal its concern with regard to the increasing number of areas of tension and conflict throughout the world, particularly in Africa. Indeed, more than two thirds of the items currently on the agenda of the Security Council relate to critical situations in Africa. However, despite these difficult circumstances, our continent has courageously taken its destiny into its own hands by creating, under the auspices of the OAU, a Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution. With the assistance of the United Nations, this mechanism should be able to play a major role in maintaining peace on the continent. Africa needs international cooperation if it is to make this instrument fully effective, given the breadth and complexity of the task that it must undertake. For some 10 years, West Africa has been particularly tested by the fratricidal wars in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea-Bissau. They have had very serious consequences for those countries, which have become fields of desolation and whose reconstruction will require the assistance of the international community for a long time to come. In this context, particular attention should be paid to the unfortunate young people in those countries. Tens of thousands of adolescents have been dragged into those wars, and now they are skilled only at fighting. It is essential to provide for and ensure their economic and social integration so as to prevent them from becoming easy prey to the warlords who are laying waste to the region. The consequences of the conflicts and tensions in the neighbouring countries of Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea-Bissau have affected Guinea in many ways and significantly impeded the achievement of its development targets. My country has provided asylum to several hundred thousands of refugees, whose presence in our land has had a very serious impact on its economy, environment and security. The impact of the refugees and the burden they represent for the country in general, and for the host populations in particular, have been enormous, making Guinea one of the leading countries of asylum in the world, since the high proportion of refugees makes up more than one tenth of its population. This situation has affected the ability of the Government to achieve its priority development objectives because of the tremendous unforeseen expenses that Guinea has had to bear and will continue to have to bear in order to restore peace, security and stability in the subregion, together with the other States members of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). Despite the support of the international community in the face of these crises and conflicts that are convulsing our continent, it is regrettable to note the discriminatory way in which Africa is treated in dealing with the refugee problem. We should like here to welcome the gratifying initiative of the United Nations to make the Republic of Guinea the focal point of stability in the subregion. In this connection, a solidarity conference to strengthen Guinea's stability and efforts for sustainable development will soon be held in Brussels. My country, which has high expectations of that meeting, would like to appeal to all donors to increase their support for the efforts of the Government of Guinea to deal with the socio-economic consequences of the massive presence of refugees in our territory. I should like to reiterate to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, the sincere gratitude of the people of Guinea for his recent visit to our country, and I am pleased to be able solemnly to pay tribute to his personal action to mobilize the international community for the benefit of Guinea. The subregion of West Africa is not the only one that has suffered from war. We remain deeply concerned by the fratricidal struggles that are convulsing Central Africa, particularly in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Angola; those conflicts continue to be at the forefront of the international political scene. While deploring the situation, which is a threat to the stability of our continent, I should like here to call on all the parties concerned to give a chance to the negotiation and mediation efforts under way in various places so that those crises can be overcome. I congratulate the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity and encourage them to pursue their initiatives and concrete actions aimed at restoring peace in those countries. Today more than ever, the Middle East needs peace and security. Such a peace can be built only with mutual confidence and the desire to live together, with respect for the rights and the dignity of all the peoples of the region. That is why we welcome the recent developments in the Middle East, particularly in Israel. The hopes that have been raised should not be dashed. In Yugoslavia, the advent of peace requires tolerance and respect for the territorial integrity and the right to coexistence of all the various parts of that nation. The establishment of a true State based on the rule of law is the only way of guaranteeing the reconstruction of the country, with the assistance of the international community. Another subject of major concern to Africa is that of economic matters and international cooperation. Here we must acknowledge that efforts to date have not yielded the results we had hoped for in meeting the needs and aspirations of our peoples. An in-depth, comprehensive, proactive approach to development problems, as defined at the Second Tokyo International Conference on African Development, deserves the support and assistance of the international community. Unfortunately, one of the essential elements of such cooperation — the North-South dialogue so eagerly sought by our countries — remains at an impasse. All the while, disparities between the rich countries of the North and the underdeveloped countries of the South have grown. The arbitrary fixing of prices for commodities and manufactured goods by the North reduces to the point of futility the measures that have been proposed to alleviate the burden of external-debt servicing. The system of trade too is based on discrimination. Under the banner of liberalization and free competition, globalization has had the effect of eroding or even eliminating preferences providing our commodities with access to the markets of the North. It is vital to establish timetables for adaptation and for the provision of alternative compensation so that our countries can maximize their potential as participants in world trade. Further, because of the importance of the fight against poverty in developing countries, we call upon donor countries to redouble their efforts to reach the target of 0.7 per cent of gross national product for official development assistance. Turning to the crucial question of debt, it is now our firm conviction that no economic-recovery programme can have the hoped-for results without a favourable approach to the backlog of debt burdening African countries, particularly the most heavily indebted among them. While my delegation welcomes the recent decisions taken by the Group of Eight at Cologne, we are nonetheless concerned that efforts need to be made to produce a lasting resolution of the debt question. Debt continues to swallow up the bulk of the resources of poor countries, particularly those in Africa, whose earnings are diminishing daily in spite of the great sacrifices made by our peoples with the adoption of structural adjustment measures. We therefore call for the convening of an international conference on the external debt of Africa with a view to finding a final solution to this problem; this would revitalize our ever more fragile economies. I wish in that connection to say that my country is now engaged in ongoing dialogue with the Paris Club of Industrial Country Creditors, the relevant Consultative Group, and the donor community with a view to significant rescheduling of our external debt. Turning to the question of human rights and democracy, my Government believes that the eradication of poverty, social inequality and ignorance is a prerequisite for the promotion of human rights. Even though we are living through a difficult situation, my country remains deeply committed to democratic values and fundamental freedoms and has created all the necessary institutions for a State based on law; the proper functioning of these will contribute to our political stability. We have been witness to the gradual emergence of a sense of hope, common destiny and a new partnership among nations. Such a world vision, however, should not to cloak our profound concern at a time when humanity is preparing to cross the threshold of the third millennium. The international community must do everything in its power to bring about the triumph of hope, even if threats to the very existence of the world persist. If it is to shoulder these responsibilities to the full, the international community has no choice but to help the United Nations adapt to the major changes under way in 3 the world and must play its proper role in that world. More than ever before, mankind must understand that it bears responsibility for its own future. In the name of human solidarity, the very fabric of international cooperation, I call upon all members of this great world family to make the United Nations a centre for harmonizing the efforts of the nations of the world, united in defence of our common destiny: a house in which all our wills converge resolutely, looking towards the future, and in which humanity can flourish and be united on the basis of freedom, justice, peace and prosperity. Long live the United Nations. May I, on behalf of my delegation congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. Kenya's pride in seeing you preside over the affairs of the Assembly, which you have been associated with for so long, derives from our close and long bilateral ties with your great country. I take this opportunity to register my delegation's appreciation to your predecessor, His Excellency Didier Opertti of Uruguay, for the able manner in which he presided over the work of the fifty-third session. We commend the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the effective and tireless manner in which he continues to manage the affairs of this Organization and encourage him to continue serving the international community with his characteristic selfless dedication to duty. Kenya will continue to support his efforts to further strengthen the Organization. Kenya warmly welcomes the Republics of Kiribati and Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga into this family of nations. As we approach the new millennium, there is need for us to reflect on the past, the present and the future of our world. The cumulative history of mankind during the current millennium has been characterized by the struggle of the human race to overcome the various problems of hunger, war and disease. Throughout time man has invested constantly to provide shelter, increase literacy and tackle the various problems of underdevelopment. The latter part of this millennium has witnessed enormous political, economic and social changes. Where once slavery was acceptable, today freedom is the norm. Where once crude methods of economic production dominated, today sophisticated production techniques govern. Where ignorance was widespread, today science and technology determine man's progress. Where before the human rights of peoples were unknown, today they are an integral part of the international agenda. But even as we note the progress that has been made, the scourge of poverty and underdevelopment remains a painful reality for most of us. We believe that poverty is the root cause of the conflicts that pervade various regions of our globe, unleashing immense suffering on humankind — particularly on women and children. Our continent, Africa, continues to suffer from the ravages of intra-State and inter-State conflicts. The issue of the complementarity of the roles of the United Nations and that of regional organizations needs to be addressed. African countries have taken their own initiatives to resolve the various conflicts raging in the continent. Although progress has been made in some cases, many of the conflicts remain intractable, making it difficult for affected countries to redirect their efforts and resources towards economic development. 20 In our own region, together with other members of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Kenya is seized with the conflicts in Sudan and Somalia. The subcommittee on the Sudan peace process, for example, is actively engaged in the search for a peaceful settlement to the conflict in the southern Sudan. At the most recent meeting, held in Nairobi from 19 to 23 July 1999, members of the IGAD ministerial subcommittee agreed to establish a secretariat to facilitate intensive and continuous negotiations to resolve this conflict. As chairman of this subcommittee, Kenya is optimistic that this new arrangement will contribute positively towards reaching a negotiated settlement. We hope we can count on the support of all the members of the international community to find a solution to this long-standing conflict. Kenya continues to be seized with the situation in Somalia. As a neighbour that shares a border of 1,200 kilometres with Somalia, we are concerned at the loss of international interest and support for this sad country. The international community should resume its active interest and support for Somalia in order to instill in the innocent people of that country some measure of hope for the future. We are grateful for the roles that the Organization of African Unity and the United Nations have played and continue to play. However, Kenya calls for greater involvement by the United Nations in support of ongoing regional efforts. The new initiative unveiled by the Chairman of IGAD, President Guelleh of Djibouti, at this podium on 22 September 1999, deserves serious consideration. In efforts to support and assist the people of Somalia, the territorial integrity of that country must be respected. Regional entities that may have come into existence during this period in Somalia's history should be seen as building blocks intended to eventually lead to a Government of national unity. We the neighbouring countries, as well as the international community, have an important role in facilitating the process leading to a peaceful and comprehensive settlement of the conflict. Our common commitment to a united Somalia should not waver. In the tradition of African hospitality, Kenya has always provided a home to displaced people from neighbouring countries. As a result of the collapse of the central authority in Somalia, a large number of refugees found their way into our country. We are proud to have been able to assist and even settle some of them. In this regard, we are grateful for the role being played by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the United Nations Children's Fund, the World Health Organization and many others who have provided invaluable assistance, without which it would have been impossible for the Government of Kenya alone to cope with the humanitarian crisis. Recently, Kenya decided to tighten its border controls with Somalia. However, we remain committed to facilitating ongoing humanitarian operations, which continue with numerous daily flights into Somalia from our territory — and, in some cases, by land as well. We have been able to do this by coordinating our actions with the relevant humanitarian agencies and organizations. The crisis in the Democratic Republic of the Congo remains of utmost concern to us because it poses a serious threat not only to the Great Lakes region but also to the rest of our continent. It is for this reason that Kenya has been involved in the attempts to resolve the conflict, particularly in its early, initial stages. Kenya's offer to host in Nairobi the proposed Congolese national debate on the political future of their country still stands. We commend the recent personal efforts that President Chiluba of Zambia has made in negotiating a settlement plan which seeks to find a comprehensive solution to that crisis. We will do everything possible to complement these efforts and hope that the international community will be prepared to fulfil its own supporting role. As the international community continues to play its part, the responsibility for a final, comprehensive and lasting settlement to the crisis in the Democratic Republic of the Congo falls largely to the people and their leaders. In that regard, Kenya urges all parties to the Lusaka Agreement to demonstrate their commitment by implementing it, both in letter and in spirit, in a timely and appropriate manner. We firmly believe that it is time for the Security Council to actively step in and provide tangible support for the peace process. Africa expects that the support given to peacekeeping operations in other parts of the world will be replicated, both in scope and in content, in the case of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. We know that most members of the Security Council have embraced this challenge and are willing to do their part. The situation in Angola continues to be a source of great frustration. Indeed, the resumption of hostilities at a level not seen since the signing of the Lusaka Protocol does not augur well. Kenya is deeply disappointed that the leader of UNITA, Mr. Savimbi, continues to flagrantly defy the collective will of the international 21 community. We call on him to immediately cease all acts of hostility against the people of Angola. With regard to the border conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea, we note with satisfaction that the combined initiatives of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), the United Nations and the United States to secure definitive agreement on the modalities for the implementation of the OAU Framework Agreement are still on course. We appeal to both parties to exercise utmost restraint and not to resume fighting. In accordance with the United Nations Charter, the Security Council has the primary responsibility to determine the existence of any threat to international peace and security and to recommend appropriate intervention measures. There can be no derogation from this primary responsibility. In the fulfilment of this responsibility, it must be borne in mind that the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of Member States remains a cardinal element in the conduct of international relations, as spelt out in the Charter. We have serious reservations on the evolving view that even the United Nations Charter provides leeway for non-United Nations intervention. We would like to caution that this approach needs to be carefully balanced with legitimate concerns of sovereignty. Whatever we may say on intervention, the sovereignty of States remains at the core of diplomatic discourse. Derogation from this principle in the case of serious humanitarian emergencies must be made on the basis of general consensus in the United Nations. It is in this spirit that Kenya has always supported and participated in many United Nations peacekeeping missions throughout the world. We will continue to contribute personnel and remain actively involved in United Nations peacekeeping activities. All peacekeeping missions must be established in accordance with the United Nations Charter. This is why we welcome the assumption of responsibility in Kosovo by the United Nations in the form of the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK). We should do everything possible to support efforts towards the restoration of normalcy in Kosovo. We also hope that the spirit that prevailed in the establishment and financing of UNMIK will be applied to peacekeeping operations in Africa. With regard to the situation in East Timor, Kenya commends Indonesia for allowing the international community to send a United Nations — mandated multinational force to restore order. We welcome the unequivocal statement by the Foreign Minister of Indonesia, Mr. Ali Alatas, reiterating his Government's responsibility to ensure the fulfilment of the newly expressed will of the majority of East Timorese to seek a new destiny outside the Indonesian Republic. We hope, as he expressed the hope, that the parting of ways will, in his own words, proceed honourably, peacefully and amicably. As Sierra Leone continues along the path of national reconciliation and true peace, we encourage the United Nations to remain committed to and engaged in that country. We again place on record our appreciation to the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Monitoring Group (ECOMOG) for its immense sacrifice in assisting the people of Sierra Leone in their search for peace and democracy. On our part, we will continue to support our brothers and sisters in that country. Towards that end, we have already contributed personnel to the United Nations Observer Mission in Sierra Leone (UNOMSIL). Kenya is encouraged by the recent positive developments in the Middle East peace process. The resumption of direct dialogue between the State of Israel and the Palestinian National Authority, which resulted in agreement on the implementation of aspects of the Wye accords, demonstrates the vast opportunities that political goodwill can unleash. We encourage those involved to stay on course and we welcome indications that the other tracks in the Middle East peace process are receiving careful attention. On the economic front, my delegation is of the view that the slow progress in Africa's efforts to attain sustainable economic growth and development is directly related to the failure by the international community to mobilize adequate resources for development. This has been aggravated by situations of internal conflict and the prevalence of such diseases as malaria and AIDS, among others, which are compounded in turn by the shackles of poverty and deprivation and an unfavourable external economic environment. My delegation welcomes the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt (HIPC) Initiative made at the G-8 meeting in Cologne, Germany. The crushing burden of external debt on the developing countries, especially those in sub- 22 Saharan Africa, remains a major obstacle to our development efforts. While we welcome this Initiative, we are of the view that much still needs to be done. We would like to see HIPC coverage broadened to include more of the indebted countries, with relief being offered in a graduated manner. This would envisage providing the greatest relief to the most indebted countries. In addition, consideration could be given to modifying the existing terms and conditions of HIPC to enable countries like Kenya, not covered by HIPC as currently proposed, to participate without the possibility of losing access to credit that would otherwise be available to them. The terms and conditions of the HIPC Initiative are based on a piecemeal approach which will not contribute to the overall goal of debt cancellation. Debt-relief measures should be structured in a holistic and comprehensive manner without eroding Africa's future capacity to attract investments and should be linked to the long-term social and economic development of the continent. Another issue that requires the concerted efforts of the international community is that of poverty eradication. Kenya has already launched a Poverty Eradication Plan, which has received some support and which we hope will attract wider support to allow us to achieve our goal of becoming a newly industrialized country by the year 2020. Bold actions are required to ensure that the developed countries fulfil the commitments agreed upon to maintain official development assistance flows to developing countries at 0.7 per cent of their gross national product. In this regard, Kenya supports the proposal to hold an international conference on financing for development next year. The United Nations remains our only hope to spearhead the process of development. Accordingly, all Member States have an obligation to support the Organization in order for it to fulfil its development mandate. The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and other specialized bodies — such as the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements (Habitat) — must be strengthened in order to enable them to succeed in their respective roles. Kenya looks forward to the convening of the first South-South summit in Havana, Cuba, in April next year. The conference will be a historic milestone in the strengthening of South-South cooperation. The South-South summit provides a golden opportunity at the highest political level for the members of the Group of 77 and China to share their experiences and to consolidate political goodwill, which is so vital for economic cooperation and development. Kenya attaches great importance to economic cooperation among developing countries. It is for this reason that Kenya has actively pursued the path of economic integration at the regional and subregional levels. In addition to the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA), comprising 21 countries with a population approaching 400 million, we are determined, at the subregional level, to upgrade the East African cooperation arrangements — comprising Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania — into a full-fledged East African community by the end of the year. Our vision is to establish an East African community with a population of nearly 90 million people with natural, historic, social and cultural ties into one investment destination, one tourist destination, one single market and one common external tariff, with a free flow of goods, services and people. Kenya is greatly concerned by the rise in transnational crime, narcotics, money-laundering and terrorism networks. The tragic bombing of the embassies of the United States of America in Nairobi and Dar-es- Salaam in August 1998 is still fresh in our memories. This incident, not to mention the recent terrorist attacks in Moscow, has heightened our resolve to work closely with the international community to fight and eradicate terrorism. We call for concerted efforts to adopt effective international measures to eradicate the growing and dangerous links between terrorist groups, drug traffickers and armed criminal elements. Towards this end, Kenya participated actively in the Algiers summit of OAU in July 1999, at which African States adopted a convention on preventing and combating terrorism. Clearly, more needs to be done. We support the proposal to hold an international conference next year on combating terrorism. Kenya is situated in the heart of a turbulent region. The proliferation of illegal small arms and their increased criminal use on Kenyan territory, often by groups from across our borders, is motivating us to push for practical and sustained international cooperation to stop illegal trafficking in small arms. In this connection, we express our support for the convening of an international conference on the illicit arms trade in all its aspects to be held by the year 2001. In our own region, Kenya will host a meeting before the end of this year to address the complex problems of 23 small arms and their ramifications for security and conflicts in our region. We look forward to the support and cooperation of our development partners to ensure that this conference is a success. On this issue, Kenya would like to draw a clear distinction between the legitimate rights of sovereign States to self-defence and therefore to the procurement of armaments for that purpose, and the illicit traffic in small arms involving non-State actors. Kenya welcomes the urgency and importance with which the international community has recently addressed the problem of antipersonnel landmines. We participated actively in the negotiations leading to the Ottawa Convention on anti-personnel landmines and in the recent Maputo Conference of States Parties to the Ottawa Convention. We have signed the Ottawa Convention, which is now going through the ratification process. The prevailing international consensus on outlawing landmines must be maintained in order to achieve the target of a total ban on the production, use and eventual elimination of anti- personnel landmines. International cooperation is essential in the areas of landmine clearance and the physical rehabilitation of victims, as well as their social and economic rehabilitation and reintegration. As we celebrate the United Nations Decade of International Law, Kenya regards the adoption of the Statute of the International Criminal Court as a historic milestone in the progressive development of international law. We participated actively in the negotiations leading to the adoption of the Rome Statute, became the eighty-fourth State to append our signature to it and have embarked on the ratification process for it. We look to the Preparatory Commission for the International Criminal Court to elaborate on the outstanding issues, including the elements of crime and the rules of procedure, in order to reach an early consensus and ensure universal acceptance of the Statute. We hope that the Preparatory Commission will complete its work before the June 2000 deadline. As eloquently stated by the Secretary-General, reform of the United Nations is a process and not an event. In order to attain a more transparent, accountable and democratic United Nations, the collective resolve of its Member States is imperative. We must resist any attempts to approach the reform process in terms of downsizing: reform must entail restructuring to cope better with the immense economic development challenges facing our world, and the success of the reform effort must be measured in terms of the Organization's capacity to deliver programmes, strengthen the Secretariat, enhance its strategic orientation and use the development dividend to enhance socio-economic development in all our countries. In this context, Kenya welcomes the appointment of Dr. Klaus Töpfer as Director-General of the United Nations Office at Nairobi. As host to the only United Nations headquarters in the developing world, we continue to be greatly concerned by the underutilization of the excellent conference facilities at the United Nations Office at Nairobi. Practical plans are urgently required to place the Nairobi Office on the same level as the United Nations Offices at Geneva and Vienna by providing it with adequate resources and personnel to enable it to carry out its functions effectively. The changes that have taken place in international relations need to be reflected in the composition and structure of the Security Council. The Security Council is a body that is empowered to make important executive decisions on matters of peace and security on behalf of the entire membership of the United Nations. It is imperative that the reform of the Security Council should ensure greater accountability and democracy together with equitable representation. The universal and democratic nature of the United Nations should be preserved and reforms introduced to ensure fair representation of all the major geographic regions of the world. A strong and persuasive case has been made by African countries for at least two seats in the permanent membership of the Security Council. Our recent experience as a nonpermanent member of the Council has convinced us of the urgency of restructuring this important organ so that developing countries can play their rightful part in the maintenance of international peace and security. Kenya is of the view that sanctions should be imposed only in accordance with the Charter and only after all means for the pacific settlement of disputes under Chapter VI have been exhausted. A thorough study of the short- and long-term effects of sanctions, especially on innocent victims, should be undertaken. The objectives of sanctions should be clearly defined and the sanctions should be lifted as soon as those objectives have been achieved. Sanctions should be imposed for a specified time, and the conditions to be met by the country or party on which sanctions are imposed must be clearly defined and subjected to periodic review. We reject any attempts 24 to impose or prolong the application of sanctions for reasons other than the specified objectives. The application of sanctions usually has profound effects not only on the target countries but also on their neighbouring countries and other trading partners. Efforts should therefore be made to put Article 50 of the Charter, which refers to third States, into operation by establishing mechanisms or Funds to provide them with relief. In this regard, Kenya urges that the sanctions on Iraq should be urgently reviewed with a view to their suspension and eventual lifting. We also hope that the sanctions on Libya, recently suspended, will soon be lifted. As we enter the twenty-first century, it is hard to imagine what this world would be without the United Nations. Consider for a moment the number of lives that have been saved by the Organization; the personal freedoms that many countries and individuals now enjoy; and the diseases that have been controlled or eliminated: the list of successes is endless. But much still needs to be done: the Secretary-General's proposal for a Millennium Assembly, with a millennium summit as an integral part, would provide an important forum for us to reexamine the role of the Organization and chart our path for the next millennium. Kenya will play its part.Allow me, Sir, to congratulate you on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly. Your election is a well-deserved tribute to the role that Namibia is playing in the international arena. Your human, professional and intellectual qualities will certainly ensure positive guidance of our work. Allow me also to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the outgoing President, Mr. Didier Opertti, for the dedicated and competent manner in which he conducted the work of the fifty-third session of the Assembly. I reserve a special word of appreciation and esteem for the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the notable way in which he has been fulfilling his difficult task at a moment when so many and such complex challenges face the United Nations and so many hopes are placed on the Organization’s capacity to act. I address the Assembly still under the impact of the wave of emotion, indignation and revulsion that swept over the entire world as a result of the tragedy that befell the people of East Timor after the announcement of the results of the popular consultation on the future of that Territory, which was conducted in an exemplary manner by the United Nations on 30 August. Anyone who saw the pictures of the Timorese on voting day — clutching their registration cards, waiting in orderly lines for the long-awaited moment to express freely their will — must have reacted with strong emotion and surely perceived, on those faces and in those gestures, the universal appeal of democracy, freedom and justice. The striking contrast between the example of silent courage and civic sense given by the Timorese when massively participating in the ballot and the barbaric acts of revenge that followed clearly reveals what was at stake in this process. I do not wish to dwell on the history, unfortunately so little known, of the struggle for independence waged by the people of East Timor over the last 24 years. Nor will I recount the procession of horrors they had to suffer and, unfortunately, are still suffering to win their freedom. History teaches us that the birth of a new nation is usually a conquest by its people, achieved as a result of a painful process. The case of East Timor is not an exception. By their courage, determination and willingness to fight and suffer, the people of East Timor have earned the right to become an independent nation. I wish to pay tribute to them, as well as to their leader, Xanana Gusmao, whose human and political qualities have commanded the respect of all who have met him. And on behalf of the Portuguese people, I would like here to bow before the memory of all the Timorese who paid with their lives for the dignity of their people. The events of the last few weeks in East Timor have rocked the conscience of the international community and force us to reflect on the responsibility of the United Nations, as the representative organ of that community, for the construction of a more just and humane international society. As universal awareness of the inalienable value of the dignity of the human being takes hold at this end of the century, an increasingly heavy responsibility is falling to the members of the international community to articulate principles and interests, in the knowledge that for interests to be legitimate principles must be upheld. That awareness demands, from all those holding public office, prompt and firm responses to moral and juridically unacceptable political behaviour, as well as to the humanitarian tragedies and cycles of regional instability that these provoke. World public opinion, which takes shape before our eyes as a result of the globalization of the means of communication, expects those answers from us and has trouble understanding why double standards are so often used in situations where identical principles are at stake. We all know that the international community has not always been able to rise to meet these challenges. Suffice it here to recall the tragedy of Rwanda, the cases of the Sudan and Somalia, the delay in reacting to the conflicts in Bosnia and Kosovo, and so many other situations of human suffering that, tragically, were inadequately addressed. We should therefore pay tribute to the energetic reaction of the international community to the wave of violence and terror that struck East Timor in recent weeks and to the resulting mobilization of a multinational force tasked with guaranteeing the peace and security of that territory, protecting and supporting the United Nations Mission in East Timor and facilitating the humanitarian assistance operations for the people of that territory. Let me offer my thanks to all those who have contributed to this outcome and, in particular, to the countries that have been willing to constitute this force. In this instance, and beyond the dramatic human aspects, the very credibility of the United Nations was at stake. How could the United Nations, having organized the popular consultation, betray the confidence placed in it by the people of East Timor? Although the reaction was not as prompt as the Timorese deserved and Portugal would have wished, the adoption of Security Council resolution 1264 (1999) shows the world that the Council does not remain indifferent to challenges to its authority, nor does it allow them to go unanswered. Let this case be not an exception, but rather an example for the future. Swiftness of reaction by the Security Council is a condition of its authority and effectiveness. Much of what has happened is irreparable and cannot be forgotten. I say this with great bitterness, and may I add that in this as well as in other cases, we cannot encourage a culture of impunity. Nevertheless, the arrival of the multinational force in East Timor is opening up a horizon of hope, and now we must take care of the living and attempt to save whatever can be saved. I consider the following to be immediate priorities. First, guaranteeing security in East Timor is the priority task before us so as to ensure respect for the individual rights of the Timorese and to allow them at last to live in peace without the threat of violence and persecution. Without security we will not be able to undertake with all the necessary vigour and amplitude the urgent tasks of humanitarian assistance to the population of East Timor. Secondly, we must channel humanitarian aid to East Timor with the utmost urgency, to feed, to treat and to provide shelter to the tens of thousands of displaced people scattered all over the territory; to take care of all those whose belongings have been systematically plundered; to bring comfort to those who have lost members of their families and friends and who helplessly witnessed scenes of horror that will be forever engraved in their memories; to reunite families — in brief, to come to the rescue of a population traumatized by an orgy of violence to which it fell victim. 12 Thirdly, we must attend to the situation of those Timorese, well over 100,000 of them, who have been deported to Indonesia or have fled the Territory and who are now mostly in West Timor. The continuous access of humanitarian assistance to those populations is urgent and indispensable, including by the Office of the United Nations High Commission for Refugees and other institutions for the protection of human rights, to safeguard the life and the dignity of the refugees and to ensure their unimpeded return to East Timor. Fourthly, we must accelerate the transfer of effective authority in the Territory to the United Nations, as foreseen by the Agreements of 5 May, as a consequence of the result of the popular consultation held on 30 August. Any delay whatsoever would be unacceptable. It is also important to define a timetable for the complete withdrawal, in the shortest possible time, of the Indonesian forces in the Territory. That is the only way to restore peace and stability in the region and to lay the foundations of a healthy relationship between the future State of Timor and Indonesia, a country which we hope will be able to consolidate the democratic promise heralded by its current transition process. Finally, there needs to be an enormous reconstruction effort in the Territory, which was totally devastated by pillaging, looting and destruction during recent days. To this end, the generous commitment of the international community will be indispensable. Portugal has expressed its full willingness to contribute to all of these tasks. Owing to the responsibilities it has towards the brotherly people of East Timor and the unconditional solidarity that unites both peoples, Portugal has expressed, from the first hour, its readiness to join the multinational force. To avoid any delay — since every minute counts, in terms of lives and in terms of suffering — we agreed, while ready to participate immediately, to defer our presence in the force to a later stage. With regard to humanitarian assistance and reconstruction for East Timor, we are doing, and will continue to do, our utmost. I would like here to appeal vigorously to the international community, to the specialized agencies of the United Nations and to the non- governmental organizations to contribute to this effort. With the Territory under occupation, and the attempt at annexation by Indonesia never recognized by the United Nations, the people of East Timor waited a quarter of a century to exercise the right of self-determination to which they were entitled as the people of a Non-Self- Governing Territory, as prescribed by the United Nations. Within the framework of resolution 37/30 of 1982, Portugal, as the administering Power of the Territory, Indonesia and the United Nations at last arrived at an Agreement on 5 May. The popular consultation was agreed upon, with explicit reference, both in the Agreement of 5 May and in Security Council resolution 1236 (1999) of 7 May, to the resolutions of the General Assembly that have represented and continue to represent the Magna Carta of the right of colonial peoples to self-determination: resolutions 1514 (XV), 1541 (XV) and 2625 (XXV). In spite of all the intimidation, the people of East Timor democratically exercised on 30 August their right to self-determination and chose, by a clear and unequivocal majority, their collective future, thereby acquiring, unconditionally and irrevocably, the right to constitute an independent State at the end of the transitional administration period that the United Nations will soon initiate. East Timor is reaching freedom with wounds and scars of past suffering; but it is carrying the embryo of hope, and it will now, I sincerely hope, arrive, free of resentment, as a member of the community of States. (spoke in English) The question of East Timor is about a people and about fundamentals: human dignity, international law and moral and universal conscience. In spite of all the terrible events of the past, let us salute, at the end of the International Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism, the self-determination of East Timor. Allow me to end by formulating a vow and a hope: that as soon as possible the General Assembly of the United Nations may hear the free and sovereign voice of Timor Lorosae.  Let me congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of this General Assembly, a truly global parliament where all mankind is represented and finds expression in its diversity and its fundamental unity. Your election and your personal qualities honour your country and your region. I would like to congratulate also the delegations of Kiribati, Tonga and Nauru, and through them their Governments and peoples, on their recently becoming Members of this Organization. We are convinced that they will contribute constructively and positively to the work of the United Nations, and that their presence here reaffirms the universal and democratic vocation of the General Assembly. We are holding this session at a transcendental moment in human history. At the threshold of a new century and a new millennium, it is timely for the peoples of the world to reflect on the future of our countries and of the international system. Facing the new millennium, we must draw lessons from the era that we are leaving behind, in which we learned all the good and all the evil that we can do. We saw the first man walking on the moon, the end of apartheid in South Africa and peace agreements signed in Central America; but we witnessed also the consequences of the nuclear mushroom cloud and the aberration of the Holocaust, ethnic conflicts and local wars which in the last 40 years have caused more deaths than the two world wars together. We have seen the bright-lights of democracy and freedom, but also the deep shadows of poverty and the violation of human rights. This has been a century of great contrasts. While in some parts of the globe peace is signed, in others war is never ending. While thousands of millions live in poverty, a small group lives in opulence. While we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, in many parts of the world gross violations of human dignity are committed. Yes, this has been a century of many contrasts. It has given us plenty of reasons to be proud, but it has also made us ashamed of the cruelty and hardness of the human heart. For these reasons we should never forget the lessons of the twentieth century. In the context of these lessons, we, the 188 nations gathered here — each with its own flag and symbols, each with its own political, commercial and strategic interests, each with its own problems, suffering, visions and dreams — express our readiness to take up the challenges of the new century, which must take shape, beginning now, as the century of human rights and human development. For these reasons, we have to recognize that the greatest failure of the United Nations and the international community in recent years has been the persistence of cruel armed conflicts and civil wars, which cause continued humanitarian crises and prevent the peaceful development of nations. The real victims of war are the displaced and refugee children and elderly, the raped women, the youngsters killed, the workers whose workplaces are destroyed, the students whose schools are bombed and the sick who cannot receive treatment. While war persists, human rights cannot be respected. In this sense, we condemn the atrocities committed in East Timor against the civilian population, and we join the whole world in demanding that its will, democratically expressed, be respected. We view with satisfaction the quick action of the Security Council, which will allow for the deployment of an international peacekeeping force in that Territory in order to prevent a greater humanitarian crisis. In retrospect, this crisis teaches us that the international community must be willing to actively and promptly support the processes that it initiates. Regarding the situation in the Middle East, we watch with hope the progress in the search for a peaceful and definitive solution on the basis of full compliance with the Oslo accords. We acknowledge the tireless efforts of President Barak, of Israel, and President Arafat, of the Palestinian Authority, and their commitment to peace and the future of their peoples. I would like to express my condolences to the people of the Republic of China on Taiwan for the tragic earthquake that devastated its territory on Monday, 20 September, and the recent after-shock. My most heartfelt sympathy goes to the families of the victims and the injured. Costa Rica has a firm relationship with the Republic of China on Taiwan. We admire its shared economic progress, its respect for human rights and its democracy, much promoted by President Lee. Our deep commitment to the cause of peace prompts us to view with concern the growing differences and instability in the region during the last year. We fear that these threaten peace and might unleash a new armaments race. For this reason, we trust that the differences will be resolved through constructive 8 dialogue and negotiation in good faith, with respect for the interests of the whole Chinese people. We must remember that the United Nations was established with precisely the mandate of eradicating the scourge of war, and it must again take the lead in the maintenance of international peace and security. Costa Rica therefore supports the efforts to reform the Security Council, which cannot be limited simply to an increase in the number of its members, even if this might be useful. Rather, the reform effort must centre on the Council’s revitalization. Fifty years ago Costa Rica abolished its army. In line with this example, it has advocated disarmament throughout the history of the United Nations, in order to build a world of progress and peace. The abolition of the army allowed our society to become an example of dialogue, respect and the peaceful coexistence of all social groups. Costa Rica actively promotes demilitarization because it knows its extraordinary benefits for human development; in this context, we have proposed the creation of a fund for the demilitarization of Central America, as well as the strengthening of, and full compliance with, the mechanisms of international law, in order to guarantee international peace and security and respect for human rights throughout the world. Costa Rica considers that humanitarian crises are in themselves threats to international peace and security. When they arise, the United Nations and the Security Council must not attempt to avoid their responsibility, whatever reasons are invoked. Nowadays any massive violation of human rights, any humanitarian emergency, requires the coordinated action of the international community, through this Organization. For there to be justice at the global level, the rule of law and full compliance with the principles that gave birth to the United Nations must prevail. In this context, we recall the importance of the prompt establishment of the International Criminal Court, and thus call on all States that have not yet done so to sign the Statute with a view to its prompt ratification, and we reiterate the need to accelerate the negotiations on its rules of procedure. Costa Rica hopes to receive promptly the final text in order to proceed to its ratification. Furthermore, we must recognize that conflicts and crises are multifaceted and that they present a series of political, military and economic problems. In this context, action undertaken by the United Nations must be designed not only to re-establish peace in military terms but also to re-establish peace in terms of social justice, democracy and development. The actions taken by this Organization should not be centred only on the Security Council but must actively include the General Assembly, the Economic and Social Council and the United Nations Development Programme as participants in the peace- building process. My people’s manifest desire is for the new century to be truly the century of human rights and human development. I would like to express to the international community the desire of a people that, since the nineteenth century, has been building the foundation of a far-sighted society by balancing in a single equation respect for human rights, freedom, peace, active tolerance, fraternity, democracy and solidarity. The end of the cold war, the knowledge-based economy, awareness of gender issues, an understanding of the rights of the persons with disabilities and of minorities, respect for the rights of the future generations and for environmental protection, and the processes of globalization have all begun to delineate a new human order: a twenty-first century with a more human mankind. In this new context, which is just now showing its initial characteristics, the human development agenda and the human rights agenda must coincide and complement each other. The twenty-first century is taking shape as that in which individuals and peoples will demand the right to human development, which is nothing more than the appropriate implementation and effectiveness of the institutions of freedom: human rights, the rule of law, pluralism, competition, solidarity and harmony with nature. It is at once a right and a duty to take part, actively, creatively and jointly, in the creation of such development, because the twenty-first century is called upon to be the century of high-intensity citizenship. Male and female citizens are, together with the State and the international community, the creators of their own opportunities and the builders of their own development. Passivity is a thing of the past. We in Costa Rica who are part of this change greatly value the foresight and sense of responsibility of our forefathers, which have made of our small motherland the second-ranking country in Latin America in terms of human development and the oldest and most stable democracy in the region. Even as early as the end of the nineteenth century, Costa Ricans enjoyed the continent’s highest levels of education and health, thanks to the 9 country’s far-sighted devotion to education, the rule of law, democracy, social solidarity and international trade. Since the early days of our independent and republican life, solidarity and human rights, in their fullness, have been a way of life for us Costa Ricans. Not in vain was our first Constitution called the “Covenant of Harmony”. Thus, last year when hurricane Mitch devastated Central America, in the midst of the pain over the loss of Costa Rican lives and the serious economic damage, we also took on the suffering of our Central American brothers and sisters. We were side by side with them, sharing with them our food, medicine and territory. Faithful to its humanitarian tradition, Costa Rica implemented the most generous immigration policy put forward by any nation in recent years, giving hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants from the region — amounting to more than 10 per cent of our population — the opportunity to normalize their situation with a minimum of requirements, as well as the opportunity to enjoy full equality with our nationals in access to our social welfare institutions. We hope that other countries that are sought out by immigrants because of war, poverty, natural catastrophes and ethnic conflicts will follow this example. Our country is making great efforts to look after these hundreds of thousands of immigrants; therefore, we reiterate our need to be helped so that we can strengthen the health, education and basic-services systems that we use in order to meet their needs. At this end of the century, it has been my task to promote vital transformations for the future of our small nation. We are protecting human beings even before they are born. We are fighting against child labour and the sexual exploitation of minors. We are opening havens for our adolescent mothers, and we are fighting the aggression suffered by women in many homes the world over. We are strengthening the family, providing it with more and better opportunities. We are working in favour of the rights of elder adults and those of workers, in order to deepen our social achievements of the 1940s and to guarantee a retirement pension in old age as a universal human right. Costa Rica is today acknowledged to be the healthiest society in Latin America, with high levels of computer literacy. It is the oldest democracy on the continent and a leader in the conservation and protection of the environment. Its human development levels are comparable to those of developed countries. Nevertheless, we face serious problems that prevent us from indulging in misguided self-congratulation. We are aware that progress in the field of development depends on our own actions and on the international context. Human, civil, cultural, economic, political and social rights have equal importance and complement one another. Having acknowledged the indivisibility and interdependence of these rights, it is a matter of concern that there is still some reluctance to accept the right of all nations to human development. The awarding of the Nobel Prize to Amartya Sen for his work on the welfare economy and on the understanding of poverty, inequality and hunger reminds us that global development must include the fight against inequalities and extreme poverty. This, however, must not be a struggle in which developed countries take part only out of a feeling of human solidarity; rather, it must be a struggle that involves the entire system of nations through the creation of appropriate instruments and mechanisms for action that offer opportunities for development through trade and investment. We welcomed the views of Harvard University economist Jeffrey Sachs — published recently in The Economist and supported yesterday by President Clinton and today by Vice-Chancellor Fischer of Germany — regarding the urgent need to establish new mechanisms to ensure the necessary resources for the purchase of medicines and vaccines to combat tropical diseases, thus securing their development and ensuring their distribution to the poorest and most helpless sectors of mankind. Costa Rica has spoken out to have the international economic order allow the development of those countries that are lagging behind. If we do not take action in this direction, the conditions necessary for the long-term maintenance of international peace and security will not be created. We have constantly advocated a more just and equitable economic and commercial order, one that will provide all nations with access to the benefits of the globalization process and that will provide small developing States with better opportunities to enter into commercial agreements. Before the European Union we have also advocated secure and tariff-free access for Latin American agricultural products to the European Union markets, whose protectionism costs Latin America $4.223 billion dollars annually. In order to promote the development of small States, it is indispensable to establish open trade systems so that trade and investment can become engines of economic growth and so that more and better opportunities for employment will be created in a region that suffers poverty and unemployment. 10 The developed countries' trade restrictions are barriers to our human development, as are the policies of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to restrict supplies of oil and to raise its price artificially at a time when the traditional exports of Latin America are suffering a dramatic slump in prices. On the other hand, the nations gathered here face the challenge of building an international financial system that will protect small States from economic crises. Small economies do not cause the crises, but we do suffer their adverse effects and we have not received the necessary support to face them. To correct this situation, Costa Rica proposes the creation of a precautionary fund with a flexible and speedy financial mechanism to solve the financial emergencies of small and vulnerable States, which are frequently forgotten by the international financial community because of their limited global impact. As a country that has succeeded in building a culture of protecting and preserving the environment, we stress, as we did at the summit between Europe and Latin America held this year in Rio de Janeiro, the urgent need to build an international system that will reward those who protect the environment and penalize those who contaminate or destroy it. Currently, my country is developing a system of payments to the owners of forests for environmental services and more than one fourth of our territory is protected in reservations or national parks. Costa Rica reiterates the need to take action to better apply the Kyoto Protocol; to make greater use of new markets; and to determine efficiently the costs of pollution and the profits of preservation in order to maintain the sustainable use of natural resources. Jointly with Norway, we performed the first global transaction of certificates of greenhouse-gases reduction. This mechanism should receive the support of all countries, not only in order to apply the right to human and sustainable development in each country, but also to extend the life of the human species on our planet. Let us recall that, in this task, the obligations are shared but differentiated. It is time to move from words to deeds. It is clear that, if financial systems of broader coverage are not established; if more open trade schemes are not implemented; if protectionism by developed countries, which limits our access to their markets, is not reduced; and if the global benefits of our forests are not recognized, developing countries will see a decline in their opportunities for economic growth; inequalities will increase; poverty will further deepen; political stability and social peace will be threatened; the loss of natural resources will rise; and illegal immigration towards developed nations will intensify, all creating an environment of instability and uncertainty harmful to the new millennium. Wanting the developed countries to recognize the right to human development of small countries is not utopian. It is the real aspiration of those peoples that have faced with meagre resources the tragedies of wars and the wrath of nature. Solidarity and fraternity among nations must be genuine. The twenty-first century awaits us. Let us all join hands. Humankind must enter this new age united. The twenty-first century must be the century of human rights — the century of human development.  In my statement, I should like to dwell on those questions, which, in our opinion, demand special attention. First among these is the issue of security and the maintenance of regional and global stability. Today, we are forced to recognize that terrorism is one of the principal challenges and threats to international security and stability in the twentieth century. Should the United Nations react to this most daunting challenge? Yes. The coordination of the efforts of the international community in the search for legal mechanisms to fight terrorism at the global level has become urgent. The struggle against terrorism transcends the problems of one country or even groups of countries. I take this opportunity to emphasize in particular the serious threat of terrorism facing the States of Central Asia. In this respect, I wish to say the following. First, terrorists, using Islam — one of the world’s most peaceful religions, founded on the greatest cultures of civilization — as a cover, are seeking to attain the broadest of political goals: the creation of a new regional and ultimately global order. The terrorists’ methods of assassinating peaceful civilians and creating diversions radically contradict the principles and values of Islam. Secondly, terrorism is undergoing an intensive process of internationalization. Extremists working in Central Asia are consolidating their ranks with recruits from throughout the world. Terrorism has neither nationality, borders nor any particular belief. Attempts to give terrorism, and international terrorism in particular, a national or ethnic character do not reflect reality and have their own dangerous consequences. Thirdly, the fight against terrorism requires coordinated international efforts and wide recognition of the legitimate rights of States to protect their citizens from terrorist assaults. Terrorists casually and most insolently attack peaceful populations and deprive human beings of their fundamental right to life. Fourthly, the global danger of terrorism is obvious today. There is an understanding at the international level of the need for coordinated action. At the same time, we do not fully understand the rather subdued reaction of the international community and the major States to the most dangerous spread of terrorism in Central Asia, posing the threat of regional and global destabilization. Finally, the contemporary wellsprings of terrorism, where it is born and nurtured, are the theatres of military conflict. In our region, that means Afghanistan. A working meeting of the “six plus two” group in the special format, with the participation of representatives of the two main parties to the Afghan conflict, was held in Tashkent two month ago. The discussion resulted in the signing of the Tashkent Declaration, defining the fundamental principles for the peaceful settlement of the conflict in Afghanistan. Uzbekistan supports increased international efforts to further assist the stabilization of the situation in Tajikistan and the rapid elimination of new hotbeds of tension in southern Kyrgyzstan, which has become a new target for invasion by international terrorists and extremist forces. In this regard, I would propose the adoption of a resolution by the General Assembly to consider the problem of terrorism in the framework of the Security Council, as well as the establishment of an informal group to coordinate efforts aimed at fighting terrorism and extremist crimes. We also support the proposal to convene an international conference on the fight against terrorism. We believe that the international community, in 29 preparing for the Millennium Assembly in the year 2000, should show its determination by defining extremist crimes and drafting its explicit understanding of the threat of terrorism. The Republic of Uzbekistan is recognized around the world as an authoritative supporter of the non-proliferation of the nuclear weapons. Uzbekistan is party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) and the Convention on Physical Protection of Nuclear Material. The Republic was among first countries to sign an Additional Protocol to its agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency on the application of safeguards in connection with the NPT. These actions revealed not only a deep understanding of the importance of these international documents, but also our desire to make a real contribution to solving the problem of the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, improving the planet’s ecology and strengthening global security and regional stability. The issue of establishing nuclear-weapon-free zones is firmly established on the disarmament agenda. It is already widely recognized that the creation of such zones is a unique instrument in the process of nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament, which undoubtedly strengthens international and regional peace and security. Let me express the conviction that this topic will be considered as one of the major issues in the work of the 2000 NPT Review Conference. The value of this step is of special importance in the light of nuclear testing in South Asia and the clear tendency towards a global arms race. Substantial progress has been achieved towards the realization of the Central Asian initiative to establish a nuclear-weapon-free zone. The Central Asian countries, through their common efforts and with the support of the United Nations, have come considerably closer to concluding a treaty on the establishment of a Central Asian nuclear-weapon-free zone. I hope that, at the meeting to prepare the draft treaty to be held in Japan in few days, the experts of the Central Asian countries will be able to finalize the draft. The Republic of Uzbekistan supports the measures proposed by Secretary-General Kofi Annan to reform the United Nations. The implementation of the reform programme will go a long way towards adapting the United Nations to the demands of the modern world. The Secretary-General’s proposal to convene the Millennium Assembly and the Millennium Summit in the year 2000 must be implemented. The year 2000 is a unique symbolic moment to affirm the position of the United Nations and to strengthen its role as a leading force in the twenty-first century. The Republic of Uzbekistan continues to consider Security Council reform to be a necessary and urgent process. Any delay in this process will prevent the United Nations from adapting efficiently to the dynamics of the coming millennium. We are convinced that Germany and Japan can rightly claim permanent membership of the Security Council. We are also in favour of an increase in the number of new non-permanent members of the Security Council. The deteriorating problem of the Aral Sea requires me once again to call on the Assembly for support. With the help of international organizations, the opinion that the Aral Sea crisis can be resolved only through humanitarian intervention has gradually taken root in the perception of the international community. But this is not the case. Measures of this kind have not given positive results on any continent where mankind has been faced with ecological catastrophes. In this connection, it is necessary to develop and implement, with the assistance of the United Nations specialized agencies and donors, a specific, long-term strategy and programme of revitalization for the Aral area, that would affirm the principles of sustainable development, prevent a deterioration of quality of life for people living in the region and ensure a dignified standard of living for future generations. We are hoping for the effective support of such international financial and economic institutions as the World Bank, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and others, as well as donor countries, in the normalization of the ecological situation and in meeting the pressing needs of the population living in the affected area. The problem of Aral Sea can be solved only with the help of an adjusted financing mechanism and the conscientious work of experts. The Republic of Uzbekistan comprehensively supports efforts of the United Nations and the international community aimed at counteracting the illegal cultivation, transportation and consumption of narcotic substances. The problem of drugs should be considered a danger in that it gives rise to terrorism, international crime and money-laundering. 30 The illegal sale of drugs is the most profitable shady activity in the modern world. The transnational structures controlling global trade in drugs appear in most cases to be more mobile than the structures opposing them. Today, as has been pointed out by previous speakers, more than 90 per cent of the drugs in some European countries are of Afghan origin. According to a 1998 annual report on international drug control, starting in 1995 Uzbek customs employees halted the attempted illegal export from Europe to Afghanistan of 72 tons of raw chemical material used for heroin manufacturing. This reaffirms the conclusion about the internationalization of the narcotic business and the emergence of international terrorism, which is no less dangerous. During the twentieth special session of the General Assembly, devoted to the fight against the illegal manufacturing, sale, purchase, transport, trafficking and spread of narcotic substances, we advanced many concrete proposals, including the establishment of a regional coordination centre to fight drug-trafficking and the drug business. Concrete forms of cooperation between Central Asian countries and the European Union were defined. We call for more work by the United Nations International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP) in the region of Central Asia. The conclusions of experts show that the Central Asian region is considered by the criminal world an important transit area for the transport of drugs to Europe and North America. Specific UNDCP projects aimed at the development of technical possibilities to control the transit of goods by providing border services with up-to-date methods of drug detection could contribute to this fight, which can hardly be regarded as the problem of one region alone. In this regard, we welcome the establishment, on the initiative of the Secretary-General, of the United Nations Office on Drug Control and Crime Prevention’s regional office operating in Uzbekistan. The process of democratization is long and complicated, especially if it runs parallel to large, extensive economic reforms. However, the real threat to democracy, security and stability in the region stems from the sphere of transnational crime. In this respect, we state our firm support for the work of the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice. For this reason, the Republic of Uzbekistan has expressed its intention to present its candidature for membership of the United Nations Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice for the period of 2001-2004. We hope that the tenth United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and Treatment of Offenders, to be held from 10 to 17 April 2000, in Vienna, will be devoted to the search for answers to the challenges of the twenty-first century, as indicated in a number of its main topics. We would like to focus on the work of UNDP in Uzbekistan. As the largest United Nations programme rendering assistance to developing countries in their process of development, UNDP, together with the Government of Uzbekistan, is carrying out a number of useful projects. We hope that such cooperation will be continued in the future as well. Nevertheless, I would like to say a few words about one problem that has emerged in our cooperation with UNDP and that, in our view, must be explained. The proposed regional UNDP Programme for development of the Fergana Valley has not received the support of our Government. In our opinion, the substance of the project has not been sufficiently considered and could entail negative consequences. Despite the exhaustive and comprehensive substantiation by our Government of the unacceptability of this project, which interferes with the security of the region, attempts to involve our country in the participation of the programme by distributing erroneous information throughout the international community have been undertaken during the last three years by UNDP and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. We sincerely hope that the new UNDP Administrator, Mr. Brown, will take note of Uzbekistan’s assessments. At the same time, we note with satisfaction the new style of work at the UNDP mission in Uzbekistan, which was recently headed by Mr. Kral. In conclusion, I wish to refer to the book written by the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan, His Excellency Mr. Islam A. Karimov, Uzbekistan at the Threshold of the Twenty-first Century: Threats to Security, Conditions and Guarantees of Progress, which says, “As we enter the new millennium, we extend to everyone the hand of friendship and mutual 31 understanding, symbolizing this with the words security, stability and sustainability of growth and development. For we believe that the realities these words signify constitute the most solid foundation for global geopolitical balance, and for the peace, prosperity and well-being of every individual country, which will enable every human being to face the future with confidence”.  It is a great honour for me to address the Assembly at its fifty-fourth session, and its President, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab. You may be assured, Sir, of my highest respect, and may I extend to you my best wishes for success in your efforts. This fifty-fourth Assembly, the last before the year 2000, inevitably gives us food for thought. On the one hand, it urges us to turn to the achievements and the major successes of which the United Nations can rightly be proud. On the other hand, it urges us to rise to all the challenges which the new millennium will not fail to put before us. May our debates here help establish peace and security throughout the world, settle conflicts and develop innovative solutions to the problems we will have to face. The noble ideals which have guided the United Nations over the years have neither become outdated nor lost their relevance. Peace in the world, combating poverty, defending human rights — this is a programme which is still in force and whose goals could not be more clear-cut. It is rather like the struggle of the mythical hero against the Hydra: he cuts off one head and nine more grow in its place. Nevertheless, we cannot possibly give up the fight and we must not drop our guard, not if the world we wish to build is a civilized one. 8 (spoke in English) The fifty-fourth General Assembly of the United Nations is being held at a time when the United Nations system has experienced a certain amount of strain and is faced with important challenges. These have given rise to questions about the effectiveness and the very relevance of this body within the contemporary international system. This scepticism ranges from concerns about the capability of the Organization to address regional conflicts and the needs of the developing world, to concerns about budgetary management problems. No doubt there is some basis for each of those concerns. Nevertheless, they should not undermine the fundamental importance of a truly global Organization which over a period of decades has earned respect around the world. Our ranks are constantly growing, and the United Nations continues to approach the goal of truly worldwide representation. Let me take this opportunity to congratulate the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga upon their admission to United Nations membership. The reform process of the United Nations is under way, and my country, Latvia, fully supports it. After all, Member States are the ones that set the agenda of the Organization, and it will be the quality and commitment of each State that will ultimately determine the success or failure of our common efforts. Some of the negative feelings about the United Nations stem from excessive expectations. One cannot view the United Nations as a panacea, particularly where decisions on long-lasting regional problems are concerned or when preventive actions on a regional level are long overdue. Yet even in those situations a modern United Nations system is expected to seek earlier and more effective involvement than was the case in South-East Europe, East Timor or the Middle East. It must be stressed that the painful refugee crisis of Kosovo could not possibly be resolved without the direct involvement of the United Nations and its institutions. But, sadly, the maximum potential of the United Nations cannot always be utilized because of prejudice, lack of political will or perceived political ambitions. Let us not forget that the costs of our reluctance to take action are extremely high: too often our reluctance results in the deaths of innocent people and is the cause of wholesale destruction which may take years and decades to remedy. The topical issues of cooperation, conflict prevention, non-proliferation, arms control and disarmament, humanitarian questions, environmental protection, poverty eradication and gender equality need to be addressed on a global scale. Without a doubt, the United Nations and its institutions must play an increasingly important role in resolving these issues. Since the mandate of the United Nations is to serve humanity, the United Nations should observe the principle of universality. The United Nations capacity for conflict prevention and preventive diplomacy is by no means exhausted and further attention should be paid to fostering the observance of these preventive principles throughout the world. Even as we speak here today, many people in this world are suffering at the hands of terrorists or live under terrorist threat. Any instances of terrorism should be universally condemned, and steps must be taken to strengthen the international response to this problem. For the United Nations to become a truly modern Organization, it must reflect the new realities of a changed international context. Reform of the Security Council remains central to the revitalization programme of the United Nations and should reflect both the needs of the international community and present-day realities. The acquisition or possession of nuclear weapons must no longer be the basis for super-Power status, and the future model of the Council will have to reflect this reality. That model should also make the Council more open to the views and contributions of smaller States and non- permanent members. How does Latvia see its contribution to the new United Nations? My country is one of those nations that could not be a part of the United Nations at its inception; because freedom of choice was forbidden our people when Latvia lost its independence in 1940, we have special respect for this principle today. We also reserve a special place in our hearts for the United Nations because it was the first international Organization which we joined after the restoration of independence in 1991. It was a moment of celebration, pride and even euphoria as justice prevailed and a long struggle to join the community of nations finally came to an end. But our people quickly realized that we were now setting out along a new road. After a 50-year delay, Latvia was faced with the task of becoming an equal, responsible and contributing member of a new Europe and a new, globalized international community. 9 Membership in the United Nations was just the first step along that road towards reasserting our national and our human rights. More importantly, we recognized our responsibility to help other nations setting out on this path. Yet, even at the very end of this century, we still encounter thinking which a priori denies the right of nations to choose their own destiny. Thankfully, such views are becoming less and less acceptable as the years go by. For Latvia, as a free and sovereign nation, the last few years have been a remarkably successful period of active integration into the international community, of internal restructuring, of wide-ranging reforms and societal regeneration. Fifty years of occupation have left us with a heavy social, economic and psychological legacy, but we have made tremendous efforts to overcome this in every way. The support offered by the United Nations in this onerous task has been of enormous significance and I should like to take this opportunity to reiterate the heartfelt appreciation of Latvia for the invaluable assistance provided by the United Nations. During this century Latvia has made a remarkable turnaround. It has gone from the depths of tragedy to the heights of success. In a few short years, Latvia has grown into a politically stable State with strong democratic institutions and practices. Latvia has restored a thriving market economy and a deep respect for individual rights and freedoms. Over the past few years and with the help of the international community, Latvia has attached particular importance to the process of forming a fully integrated, harmonious society. It is a challenging but critically important task for my country, the more so because of the burdens imposed by our historical legacy. We perceive it as an ongoing process that involves many cultural and educational aspects and includes the important element of the individual’s right to choose. Our goal is to give each resident of our country an equal opportunity to contribute to a civic identity that shares common goals and values with all Europe. As part of this programme, my country will continue to attach particular importance to strengthening the role of the Latvian language and incorporating minorities into the everyday affairs of the country. Latvia believes in complementarity between regional and global efforts. For Latvia, integration into Europe remains a high priority but it is not the end of the road. Integration into the transatlantic security alliance would be a prudent step but not a sufficient one. For Latvia to succeed, and for the people of Latvia to have the full opportunity they deserve to live secure, healthy and prosperous lives, Latvia must be integrated into the political, business and intellectual exchange of the global community. We are very proud that on 10 February 1999 Latvia became the first Baltic State to join the World Trade Organization as a full-fledged member. Within the range of its capabilities, Latvia has participated in peace operations in the Balkans and has contributed to relieving the suffering of Kosovo refugees. Latvia has been an active contributor to United Nations revitalization through its membership in the Economic and Social Council and the Commission on Human Rights. Latvia has put forward its candidature for the Security Council elections in 2005. This spring my country signed the Statute of the International Criminal Court and is currently planning the ratification process. A very visible indication of our appreciation of the work of the United Nations and a concrete manifestation of Latvia’s support for the Secretary General’s programme for United Nations reform is our donation of a historic, fully renovated building in the centre of our capital as a shared home for all United Nations agencies in Latvia. On 16 July this year, and as one of my first official functions as President, I had the pleasure of participating in the official inauguration of the United Nations House in Riga, one of the first United Nations Houses in Europe and the very first in our region. I should like to express my country’s full support for the proposed Millennium Assembly of 2000 and trust that it will become a landmark in setting our sights for the twenty-first century. May the results of the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly advance our common cause at the dawn of the new millennium.  It is a particular honour for me to address the Assembly on behalf of the Government and people of the Dominican Republic and to take this opportunity to express my warmest congratulations to you, Sir, on your recent election as President of the fifty- fourth session of the General Assembly. I would also like to commend the excellent work of that outstanding representative of our region, the Foreign Minister of Uruguay, Mr. Didier Opertti, who so efficiently conducted the proceedings of the fifty-third session of the General Assembly. Let me also wish Mr. Kofi Annan every success in the important and delicate tasks he is carrying out as Secretary-General of the United Nations. This venerable institution, the United Nations, was founded more than half a century ago with the lofty goal of safeguarding peace among nations and the integrity of peoples. The United Nations has made a significant contribution to preventing armed conflict, reducing tension, resolving differences, promoting negotiation and agreements, and encouraging tolerance and non-violence. But in a world that is becoming increasingly complex in the wake of an era marked by bipolar confrontation between two models of civilization, and with the rise of a technological revolution that has contributed to an accelerated sense of time, a reduction in distances and an increase in expectations, the United Nations must exercise renewed leadership in order to confront this new set of circumstances which, while they represent tremendous opportunities for the peoples of the world, may also threaten their future. It is no longer just a matter of preventing war and conflict; that unavoidable task will always be expected of the Organization. The United Nations must ensure for every human being on this earth a dignified, hopeful and decent existence. Never before has the world accumulated so much wealth. At no other time in history has humankind been able, as it is today, to produce everything it needs in the way of food, clothing, shelter, communications and transportation. The level of wealth that exists today is such that each and every day, more than a trillion dollars circulates in international capital markets for purely speculative purposes, producing what today is known as a “casino economy”. In order to give a rough idea of what that volume of capital means, I must point out that a single day of operations in the financial markets is equivalent to twice the annual gross national product of all the African countries. However, that wealth is concentrated in just a few countries that today are identified as central countries, and inside each of them wealth is concentrated in a few hands that control industry, finance, transportation and communications. The concentration of wealth in a few countries, and the influence that those 4 countries exert in the media, leads to the dissemination of a consumer philosophy that in turn contributes to the adoption of artificial lifestyles and behaviour patterns that are conducive to waste, luxury and ostentation. Alongside all this wealth, however, the world has never suffered so much poverty. Today, 1.3 billion people live in extreme poverty, and most of them suffer from hunger every day. In such a wealthy world, 3 billion people survive on less than $2 a day, and each year 50 million children are permanently harmed because of malnutrition. Some 1.5 billion people have no access to drinking water, and more than 2 billion have no access to drainage or sewerage facilities. A large percentage have very limited access to education, health care and housing, and hundreds of millions are unemployed or have no secure or permanent income. This stark and horrifying contrast between wealth and poverty constitutes a huge challenge for all the nations of the world and the United Nations system as we approach the twenty-first century. There are no magic formulas for resolving this situation. Only the concerted efforts of all nations, rich and poor, working to the same end in a spirit of solidarity and a sense of humanity will make it possible for the whole of humankind to share on a basis of equality and social justice in the prodigious and unprecedented creation of wealth in this era. For some time, in various international forums, a set of balanced and reasonable ideas have been put forward, and if they were applied they would contribute to a significant reduction in poverty and to the creation of opportunities. The world welcomed with great joy and satisfaction the decision adopted by the countries members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to use 0.7 of their gross national product to finance a programme aimed at halving by the year 2015 the percentage of the inhabitants of developing countries living in extreme poverty. Despite the public commitment made by those countries, cooperation for development fell to 0.22 of the combined product of the donor countries in 1997, which is the lowest figure since the 1950s. It is unfair that while there is a daily transfer of over $1 trillion from the central or highly developed countries, there is a tendency to decrease official development assistance for the least developed countries. The developing countries have watched their external debt climb from $1.6 trillion in 1993 to $2.5 trillion in 1998. The external debt of Latin America increased from $44.786 billion in 1980 to $669 billion in 1997 — an almost fifteen-fold increase in 17 years. Interest payments, which remained stable between 1980 and 1994 at a level between $24 billion and $28 billion, increased sharply, in 1997 reaching $42 billion. The current proposal is to reduce the debt of only the heavily indebted poor countries. It seems to us that although this is a very significant first initiative, it is not sufficient because it excludes a group of countries, including the Dominican Republic, that have made significant efforts to achieve progress and peace, yet face a titanic struggle to overcome underdevelopment and poverty. Forgiving external debt, or at least reducing it significantly, or eliminating the interest would be a just acknowledgement of those countries that, in spite of their internal difficulties, have adopted strict adjustment measures that have made it possible for them scrupulously to honour their international obligations. Forgiving external debt, or reducing it in any other way, would be a true gesture of international solidarity aimed at reducing poverty. Furthermore, the resources that would be freed as a result would greatly benefit the creditor countries and the international commercial banking community, since the purchasing power of poor nations would be increased, thereby generating a new dynamism in the world economy. The so-called Asian crisis generated international turbulence, led to the Russian crisis and had a similar impact on the Brazilian economy, which in turn affected the Southern Cone economies. In analysing that crisis, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund agreed that it resulted from factors generated by the international flow of capital in the Asian stock markets. As a result of that situation, which has been identified as the first major crisis of the globalized economy, the economists of both institutions have proposed the creation of a new international financial architecture. That new architecture would seek to stabilize the financial markets through the adoption of a set of careful measures, both national and international, to prevent another financial crisis in the future. These proposals would seem to be wise and beneficial. However, we believe that a true new international financial structure, as the focal point of a 5 global economy, should include the element of international solidarity and cooperation aimed at the introduction of measures to reduce poverty. We cannot understand why more than $1 trillion dollars circulates in international financial transactions every day while not a penny of those resources goes to the world's poor. All of Haiti's problems would be solved with only a single minute's worth of banking transactions on the international market. The same could be said of Nicaragua and of Honduras, and even of our own country, the Dominican Republic. The eradication of poverty is not an illusory goal. With the wealth currently circulating world-wide, we could restore a sense of dignity to each and every human being. Determining how to achieve this is the big challenge facing this Organization in the twenty-first century. To meet that challenge the United Nations itself has to go through a process of change and reform, beginning with acceptance that all its Member States are equal, with no differentiation between the powerful ones that possess the right of veto and the poor ones that have been marginalized in the very Organization that represents them. There is no doubt that we now have a unique opportunity to reform the Security Council. The Dominican Republic is convinced that reform of the Security Council must be carried out in keeping with the principles of equitable geographical distribution and the equal sovereignty of Member States, since no reform will be acceptable if it leads to discriminatory treatment of developing nations by developed nations. It is in this spirit that the Dominican Republic aspires to election in the near future to a seat as a non-permanent member of the Council. Our country, although small in size, has a pacifist tradition that it would hope to channel into and combine with the basic principles that should guide the Security Council. The Dominican Republic is proud to have introduced resolution 47/5, by which the Assembly proclaimed 1999 as the International Year of Older Persons. Now that the Year is drawing to a close, we are especially proud of its international success. In the Dominican Republic, thanks to the concerted efforts of the Government, in September 1998, our Congress approved a bill of rights for older persons and established a national committee to oversee its implementation. We consider this to have been our most important contribution the Year. As host country to the International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women (INSTRAW), we wish once again to stress the fundamental importance of the Institute, which is one of only three United Nations entities headquartered in a developing country, and the only one situated in the region of Latin America and the Caribbean. It is as important as it was in 1978, when it was created to promote the advancement of women, especially in our developing nations. We therefore appeal to all Governments to contribute to revitalizing the Institute so that it may continue its important work. We are confident that this great Organization will renew itself and will act with the visionary leadership for which it was created for by its founders at the San Francisco Conference, in a world that expects greater solidarity among nations and a more just, equitable and humane international order. I wish to conclude by calling on States Members of the United Nations to participate in and support the Millennium Assembly. We believe that that important assembly will reaffirm our commitment to the United Nations Charter, by highlighting the mission of the United Nations system in the twenty-first century in the light of the problems posed by globalization and of the need to ensure that that process will be of benefit to us all.  Mr. President, first let me congratulate you on your election to your high office and assure you of the full cooperation and support of the Austrian delegation. I am convinced that we will have a successful session of the General Assembly, the last in this century, under your able guidance. Austria fully endorses the statement which was so eloquently delivered by the Foreign Minister of Finland on behalf of the European Union. I would like to add the following observations to that very comprehensive statement. The United Nations in many ways finds itself at a crossroads. The Organization has to find its role and strengthen its relevance in an increasingly turbulent world. To be sure, we are able to make progress on specific issues. But is that enough in the face of mounting global challenges? Much has been said and written in the last few years about globalization, and I believe we are all aware of the speed and impact of this very dynamic process. What we still need is a coherent political response to this phenomenon. We have to meet the challenges and make the best possible use of the opportunities presented to us. While our everyday work must be focused on reaching achievable goals within a realistic time, we must never lose sight of our larger duty to provide human security in its fullest sense. This means that we have to provide individuals and communities with security, dignity and quality of life. We have to protect them against threats to their safety and well-being, such as conflict, discrimination, poverty, organized crime, corruption or repression. In recent years, a number of initiatives have been successfully launched, in particular on landmines, small 17 arms and child soldiers. Austria is working very actively to promote the human security agenda, and I would like to highlight three priority areas: human rights education, the fight against child pornography and the fight against what the Secretary-General has aptly termed the uncivil society. On the occasion of the twentieth anniversary of the presence of the United Nations in Vienna next month, we will organize a high-level meeting on these and other aspects of human security. Most threats to human security have a human rights dimension. This is why a human rights security agenda must include an overall strategy aimed at the strengthening of a worldwide human rights culture. Recent events in Kosovo or East Timor have shown that the most basic rights cannot be taken for granted. Again and again we will have to assert the universality and indivisibility of human rights. We therefore stress the importance of human rights education, which is essential for the promotion and the achievement of stable and harmonious relations within countries and among communities. We must redouble our efforts in support of the United Nations Decade for Human Rights Education. Next year’s mid-term evaluation of progress made in the Decade provides an ideal opportunity. Institutions and organizations with specialized expertise in our countries should identify specific ideas for further action on human rights education activities at national level, in foreign policy, and in the context of development cooperation. Every man and every woman must know his or her rights in order to become a full and equal member of society. People must be provided at the national and the international level with effective remedies for human rights violations. We therefore welcome the successful conclusion of negotiations on the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women. Its adoption by the General Assembly and its early entry into force will have great significance for women around the world. Human security starts in the smallest entities of our society. The mutual learning process within families is one of human beings' most valuable experiences. The family, as the fundamental unit of society and the natural environment for the growth and well-being of all of its members, should be afforded the necessary protection and assistance so that it can fully assume its responsibilities within the community, because it is within the family, first and foremost, where children, the most vulnerable group in society, seek support and protection. Millions of children are being exploited worldwide. Their basic human rights are being denied in many ways. For some time now, and in particular during the Austrian presidency of the European Union, Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister Schüssel has been trying to focus attention on one particular aspect: child pornography on the Internet. Next week, Austria will host an international conference on combating child pornography on the Internet. Organized by Austria, the European Commission and the United States of America, the conference will bring together high-level officials from Ministries of the Interior and Justice, the judiciary and the police, experts from international organizations, non-governmental organizations and the industry, especially Internet service providers. The United Nations system will be represented by experts from the United Nations Children's Fund and the United Nations Centre for International Crime Prevention. The main objectives of the conference are to reinforce cooperation between law enforcement officials and the judiciary, establish codes of conduct for Internet service providers and the further development of hotlines and networks between them. The results of this initiative will be presented to the United Nations. The fight against drugs and transnational organized crime has rightly been accorded priority status in the work of the United Nations. I am glad that the reform measures introduced by Secretary-General Kofi Annan have reaffirmed Vienna's role as the United Nations centre for fighting uncivil elements in society. Austria is particularly worried by reports about the situation in Afghanistan, where the areas under poppy cultivation area apparently doubled in 1998. We are therefore appealing to all partners to enhance their efforts in assisting the United Nations International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP) to combat the cultivation and production of drugs in that region and elsewhere. As a practical contribution to this effort, Austria will sponsor a UNDCP training seminar for Central Asian drug authorities this autumn. Austria strongly believes that drug control is, above all, in the interests of our children and future generations. In April 2000, the first United Nations conference in the new millennium, the Tenth United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders, will take place in Vienna. The key issues contained in the preliminary draft of the Vienna Declaration on Crime and Justice: Meeting the Challenges of the Twenty-First Century (E/1999/30-E/CN.15/1999/12, para. 3), whose final forum will be adopted at the 18 Congress, address the most burning questions in international crime prevention: trafficking in human beings, smuggling migrants and illicit transfers of firearms. In this context, I can say with satisfaction that the Austrian initiative to elaborate an international legal instrument against the smuggling of migrants, which Austria presented to the General Assembly two years ago, has gathered a great deal of support among United Nations Member States. Currently, intensive negotiations within the framework of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Elaboration of a Convention against Organized Transnational Crime are being held and will hopefully be concluded next year with the adoption of a universal protocol against the smuggling of migrants. The last of the series of world Conferences in the 1990s showed that an innovative yet pragmatic approach can work. This was the Third United Nations Conference on the Exploration and Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, UNISPACE III, which took place in Vienna in July this year. The Conference focused on the question of how to ensure that space technology will benefit humanity in the twenty-first century and that it is used effectively to promote security in all its forms for the benefit of all countries. It has provided developing countries with opportunities to define their needs for space applications for development purposes and to identify ways and possibilities for them to participate in international programmes which develop these applications. UNISPACE III was both a novel and a successful type of Conference in bringing together industry and academia, and young people, as equal partners and incorporating their insights into the final documents. In the twenty-first century, the United Nations and the international community will be judged by their capacity to prevent armed conflict. At a time when the world's problems appear to be growing and the resources to tackle those problems seem to be shrinking, we must be more strategic than ever in devising new ways to approach these challenges. Again and again we have had to face the fact that the international community is not in the position to bridge the gap between early warning and early action. In future, efficient mechanisms will have to be implemented by international organizations in order to act at an early stage. In our response to looming refugee crises, much faster action is needed to avoid human catastrophes like the ones we have witnessed in Kosovo and East Timor. As part of its development cooperation concept, Austria is currently working on a comprehensive strategy for conflict prevention which combines all available measures, from facilitation and mediation to a targeted use of the instruments of development cooperation. Austria is actively involved in the Arusha peace process for Burundi and is offering a broad range of seminars and training programmes on preventive diplomacy, in particular with its partners in Africa. Austria's development cooperation aims to promote both sustainable development and sustainable peace. Austria has always lent its active support to United Nations efforts to maintain international peace and security. Since 1960, it has been one of the major contributors to United Nations peacekeeping missions. At the moment, more than 1,500 Austrian troops, civilian police, military observers and civilian experts are serving in United Nations peacekeeping, and other United Nations mandated operations, and in missions in which regional organizations are participating — from Kosovo to East Timor, and from Western Sahara to Tajikistan. We will continue to do our utmost to assist the United Nations in its efforts to enhance stability in many areas of tension around the world. If we are to cope with all these challenges, we clearly have to reinforce the rule of law in international relations. A large part of the legal basis already exists. What is needed to make it work is our common political will to monitor and to ensure its application. This can only happen in the framework of the United Nations, in particular through the Security Council. In view of the United Nations primary responsibility for the maintenance of peace and security, it is crucial that the United Nations prove its ability to act quickly and decisively in conflict situations. The decisive action taken during the Gulf war in 1990-1991 raised international hopes and expectations for the future. But already during the terrible conflicts in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, particularly in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it took the Organization much longer to find a successful crisis solution. It only managed to do so by applying a sensible subcontracting policy with regional organizations. The recent tragedies in Kosovo and East Timor have both brought the United Nations and the Security Council to the brink of being perceived in international public opinion as ineffective or unable to act. 19 The Security Council, which carries the primary responsibility for international peace and security, must maintain its ability to act. It cannot be seen to be driven by the subjective interest of members rather than by an objective assessment of real requirements. It goes without saying that the permanent members bear a particular responsibility in this regard, which includes financial obligations. The privileges of permanent membership come with a heavy obligation: to act whenever necessary. If a peace operation has to be established, it must not matter whether the conflict situation is located in an area of little strategic interest or whether the country in question maintains unwelcome relations with another entity. Its mandate and size must be based on the conditions on the ground, and not depend on anybody’s willingness to finance it. Should the Security Council be seen to be unable to fulfil these functions, we will have to heed the call for reforms, including the role of its permanent members. On East Timor, the Security Council has finally lived up to its special responsibilities assigned to it under the Charter. This proves that the international community must act decisively when confronted with massive violations of international humanitarian law and human rights. Austria welcomes Security Council resolution 1264 (1999) authorizing a multinational force for East Timor under Chapter VII and the commitment of the Indonesian Government to cooperate with this force in the implementation of the mandate. We hope that this initiative will contribute to bringing about national reconciliation, lasting peace and respect for the will of the people of East Timor, expressed so clearly during the consultations on 30 August 1999. Austria underlines the necessity to urgently provide humanitarian assistance, and will also contribute to these efforts. The vote on the future of East Timor must be respected by all sides. Austria, while underlining its desire to see a strong, democratic and united Indonesia, looks forward to recognizing East Timor once the process towards independence is complete. Austria sharply condemns the atrocities committed in recent weeks. Those who planned, authorized or executed these acts must be held individually and personally accountable and be brought to justice. After a long impasse the peace process in the Middle East is back on track. Austria greatly welcomes the memorandum signed by Israel and the Palestinians at Sharm el-Sheikh, which removes the obstacles to the implementation of the Wye Agreement. Furthermore, we have taken note with satisfaction that implementation on the ground has already begun. Here I should especially like to point to the handing over of territory, the release of Palestinian prisoners and the beginning of the final status negotiations. This clear commitment of the parties should augur well for further speedy progress on the road to peace. Now it will also be necessary to bring about new momentum in the Syrian/Lebanese track of the peace process by relaunching the negotiations between Israel, Syria and Lebanon. I think that all parties agree that peace and mutual understanding are the only viable option for a prosperous future for all nations in the Middle East region. The western Balkans, being geographically so close to Austria, will remain in the foreground of Austrian foreign policy. The most burning problem is currently the situation in Kosovo, which merits the joint attention of the international community. I would like to commend the work which has already been carried out by the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) and by KFOR, and the progress realized so far, in spite of such difficult circumstances. True, in the implementation of Security Council resolution 1244 (1999), and in our efforts to bring Kosovo back to normalcy, there are delays and setbacks, in particular the insecurity, the tensions in Kosovska Mitrovica, and the exodus of the majority of Kosovo Serbs and other non-Albanians. Nevertheless, one must not forget the paramount importance of the Kosovo issue for the stability of the whole Balkan area, which is why we must not become discouraged when we meet problems. Rather, we have to understand them as an incentive to redouble our efforts. Yesterday’s demilitarization agreement between KFOR and the UCK is, I would say, a very encouraging step in the right direction. In addition to setting up a functioning civil administration, including police, creating a democratic political atmosphere respectful of human rights, repatriating over 1 million refugees, and reconstructing the infrastructure and the economic life of Kosovo, it is UNMIK’s crucial task to facilitate a political process leading to a definite status of the province. This is a very complicated endeavour, which requires sound and prudent preparation. We must not try to rush things, since it is clear that stability and reconciliation have to be established and solidified before we can tackle the final status question. 20 The same holds true for Montenegro. We must, and we will continue to, support the Montenegrin reform process, and we must not allow forces in Belgrade to undercut those pluralistic and economic improvements. For the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as a whole, we will continue to work towards democratization, political reform and respect for human and minority rights. Upon such changes — which are not only urgently necessary but which are also yearned for by the Serb and Yugoslav people — Yugoslavia should, and will, take its rightful place in the international community. In spite of some progress made by Bosnia and Herzegovina, it still needs and deserves our intense help — both politically and financially. At the same time, it is increasingly necessary for the Bosnians themselves to take on more responsibility for their future and to start a process of decoupling themselves from dependency on international assistance. Let me emphasize at this juncture Austria’s strong belief in the protection and promotion of minorities in general. This attitude is based on historic experience and the conviction that ethnic minorities constitute a true enrichment of our societies. It is of interest for the international community to recall that there are existing successful settlements of important minority issues in Europe. In particular, I think of the Austrian minority in the South Tyrol, which today enjoys a well-balanced autonomy on the basis of the Paris Treaty of 1946 between Austria and Italy. Time and again it has been noted that this formula could be an example for the settlement of minority disputes in other parts of the world. Though regional organizations and coalitions of the willing have credibly shown their readiness to take on responsibilities in the maintenance of international peace and security, the United Nations continues to provide the indispensable political, legal and institutional links to ensure the acceptance, legitimacy and accountability of their respective efforts. The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) plays a central role in promoting peace, security and stability in the regional context, in particular through its broad range of activities in the area of conflict prevention, crisis management and post-conflict rehabilitation. The broad scope and complex nature of the security challenges in the region requires a pluri- institutional response. But that implies also an effective cooperation among the institutions concerned. The OSCE, as a regional arrangement according to Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United Nations, is closely cooperating with the United Nations in many fields and regions, such as in Kosovo. In our capacity as the next Chairman-in- Office of the OSCE, we will continue the efforts to strengthen the relationship between the OSCE and the United Nations at both the political and field levels. Let me conclude by confirming Austria's strong commitment to the United Nations. In a little less than one year, our Heads of State or Government will participate in the millennium summit. I hope that this will be the occasion to unlock the potential of the Organization. We must use the wonderful tool of our Organization as it was meant to be used: to ensure our survival on this planet in peace, freedom and dignity. On spaceship Earth the supplies are limited, so we have to make the best possible use of them. Whatever our differences, we all know what needs to be done. Let us find the political will to do it.  Mr. President, it gives me great pleasure to convey to you and your country, Namibia, my heartfelt congratulations on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly for this session. We are fully confident that your ability, well-known experience and personal talent will crown our work with success, to which the delegation of Cape Verde will contribute its greatest efforts. We would like to express our appreciation and gratitude to your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti of Uruguay, for the professionalism and devotion with which he conducted the work of the Assembly at its fifty-third session. We would also like to say that, at a time when the international community must confront complex challenges, it is a great privilege for the United Nations to be able to rely on the creativity, dynamism and determination that the Secretary-General brings to his lofty office. We are pleased to welcome the Republics of Kiribati and Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga as new members in our Organization. The annual session of the General Assembly which opened a few days ago will lead us into the next millennium; during the session, preparations will be made for various important events planned for the year 2000, including the special sessions of the General Assembly on the implementation of the outcome of the World Summit for Social Development and Further Initiatives and the Fourth World Conference on Women. The fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly will also prepare for a major event, the millennium summit. Therefore, this will be a time when we will need to demonstrate not only our most lucid thinking, but also and perhaps primarily a firm will to act. The core of our discussions will be the great challenges that humanity faces today and will face in the foreseeable future, and we will need to identify what must be done to meet them successfully. In that regard, clarification of the role which the United Nations must play and specific ways for it to attain this goal must be a priority of the summit agenda. We are at the end of a decade marked by a new phase in international affairs, a decade, however, that was one of unmet expectations when we think back to how high they were at its beginning. The experience of the past few years has been one of continuous increase in the complexity and frequency of emerging situations leading to a veritable overhaul of concepts and perceptions. But we are not sure that we are any closer to the major solutions we lack. It might even be said that we have embarked on a process that has its own logic and momentum and in which the attainment of common aspirations does not always seem to be the driving force. Yet today, and not only today, we have at our disposal sufficient intellectual and material resources to build a successful future. It is therefore disquieting to have to acknowledge that, despite all this potential, humankind is still incapable of controlling its own destiny. Acquiring this ability is an imperative, therefore, and must be the fundamental goal of our debates at the dawn of the new millennium. Given that the destiny of humankind is a collective challenge, control over it must be sought collectively for it to be meaningful. The effective implementation of the concept of “international community”, which has been the basis of our political philosophy for a long time now, can no longer be avoided or postponed as it has been so far. When the millennium summit meets a year from now, the leaders of the world must be prepared to start rebuilding an international community and usher in a new era in which sustainable human development will become a real right for all peoples; in which international justice will be more effective; and in which the United Nations Charter will no longer be applied in a manner that bends with the wind. Democracy as a means of ordering and managing societies has seen important progress during this decade. In its most visible aspects, such as the selection of leaders through pluralistic, more transparent processes, it is based on an understanding that governance by elected officials can and should bring peace, prosperity and justice to a society and that elected leaders are politically accountable for the results obtained. As we all know, these assumptions are not absolute and are becoming even less so. When looking at governments individually, it is apparent that command and control of important factors which determine the well-being of citizens are sorely lacking. Meeting the necessary conditions for each State to succeed depends to a large extent on multilateral concertation and cooperation. This dialogue between States, however, will not be enough to resolve all the points at issue, which are increasingly in the hands of third parties. Today, therefore, there is a growing gap between social responsibility — which remains limited to the public and the political domains — and the availability 10 of the wherewithal and will to act on which this responsibility is based. However the situation evolves, adjustment must be ensured through revitalization of this same concept of “international community” to which I referred. Once again, this concept proves to be the cornerstone of the quest for a harmonious and prosperous destiny for humankind. The progress to which we aspire will always coexist with differences and even inequality. Of that we are well aware. But the shocking magnitude of poverty today must provoke a gut feeling of rejection that makes it imperative for this situation to be remedied at any cost. The palliative measures that we seek to introduce and maintain should not lull us and cannot take the place of definitive solutions. It is imperative that poverty should no longer be seen as an acceptable or inevitable by-product of the economic and social process: rather, we should come to see it as a serious breakdown in it that must be attacked and corrected. Even in societies considered to be well off, poverty victimizes certain segments of the population that lack even the minimum material conditions to live in dignity. The least- developed countries are even less able to roll back poverty in any meaningful way. Speaking of poverty necessarily prompts a discussion of the situation in Africa, where the greatest number of least-developed countries are found. We have said before — and this does not detract from Africa's own, inherent responsibility — that the way Africa has been left out of development is also a failure of the international system. Africa's development difficulties have often been aggravated by conflicts, but we cannot just wait for peace to happen there or be discouraged by the current situation. Finally, while conflicts in Africa have many causes, economic underdevelopment has been recognized as an important factor. It is therefore regrettable to witness the reduction in development assistance in Africa; this has a direct negative impact on the living conditions of its peoples, including a decline in health standards, the dooming to failure of adequate education prospects and a slowdown in provision of the necessary African infrastructure. The impact has been worsened by the decrease in official development assistance to small island developing States, some of which — in apparent contradiction to their particular structural constraints — are showing relatively acceptable human development indicators and higher gross national product per head indicators than those found at the bottom of the world scale. That, together with the good performance of these countries, has often been used to justify a precipitous and disastrous reduction in official development assistance. We would not claim that our countries should be spared from changing and improving in order to mobilize and rechannel resources towards these areas and many others that I have mentioned. I would, however, stress that this reduction in assistance, due to a certain “fatigue” that sometimes takes on the appearance of a form of punishment, cannot solve anything. Rather, development assistance policy should continue to seek means of combating and eliminating wasteful activities and guarantee an effective channelling of resources towards activities that are necessary to development. Of course, we agree that official development assistance is not the key to prosperity. But, added to vigorous strides with regard to debt to ease the current financial stranglehold, it facilitates the creation of favourable human and material conditions for direct investment, competitiveness, fruitful trade and Africa’s lasting integration into the world economy. This reference to Africa’s external debt is not mere rhetoric. While welcoming recent steps taken and announced by countries and groups of creditors that have a particular solidarity with Africa, I must say that this question has for too long been dealt with too ungenerously, too late and too slowly. Today’s steps, limited in content and in the range of countries concerned, and with overly restrictive eligibility conditions, would have had much more impact if they had been taken when they were so urgently demanded a long time ago. Moreover, they would have facilitated the continuation and necessary deepening of the economic and political reforms under way on the African continent, and would have stimulated increased African regional cooperation. After 24 years of illegal occupation and extreme suffering inflicted on the people of East Timor, the process of self-determination appeared to be leading to an honourable conclusion for all interested parties. But with great dismay and indignation we witnessed violent events in the Territory in recent weeks. These vile acts, perpetrated by people determined to reverse the choice of independence that the Timorese clearly expressed at the ballot box, could and should have been prevented, and they should receive the total rejection and most vigorous, effective condemnation of the international community. Since the illegal occupation and annexation of East Timor by Indonesia, Cape Verde always strongly defended the cause of the Timorese people and always fought for the retention of the problem of East Timor on the Assembly's agenda. We reaffirm our tireless support for East Timor’s independence and for the territorial integrity of this fraternal country, and we call upon the United Nations to act with all necessary firmness to promote and guarantee the full implementation of the New York agreements, in particular the provisions of Security Council resolution 1264 (1999). We therefore welcome the arrival of the International Force in East Timor (INTERFET) and strongly support any necessary measures it might take to carry out its mission of restoring order and security; protecting the Timorese people from coercion, intimidation, violence and terrorism; and guaranteeing a peaceful transition towards independence. However, our pleasure at the effective quick reaction by the international community as a result of the pressure of worldwide public opinion should not allow us to forget the thousands of Timorese suffering great shortages and brutal violations of their most elementary human rights, or the men, women and children persecuted and forcibly deported to West Timor and elsewhere in Indonesia simply because they freely exercised the right of a people to self- determination under the aegis of the United Nations. It follows that the international community has a moral and legal duty to give them immediate, sufficient humanitarian assistance; to promote and guarantee the return of all Timorese refugees and deported persons, with dignity and security; to bring to international justice all those morally and physically responsible for crimes against humanity and gross violations of the most fundamental human rights, committed in East Timor in a planned, systematic way; and to provide substantial, effective support for the reconstruction of a country which has suffered from criminal, premeditated destruction. In Angola, unfortunately, hostilities have resumed and the prospects for the implementation of the Lusaka Protocol have vanished, despite United Nations intervention, which, it must be acknowledged, has not been successful. The clear inability of the international community to secure strict compliance by all the parties and States concerned with the commitments that they undertook under agreements negotiated under the aegis of the United Nations, including resolutions of its own bodies, has led to the re-emergence of this conflict. That is because it has not prevented UNITA from seriously rearming and impeding the extension of State administration to the whole of Angola's territory. The magnitude of the long and bloody conflict in Angola should be a source of great concern to the international community, which should continue and intensify its efforts to identify possible ways of restoring peace to Angola, efforts that should be deployed by all the entities that can contribute. Cape Verde will not fail to participate to the extent that its resources allow. One priority must be to bring together everything needed to deal with the unprecedented humanitarian catastrophe hitting Angola. The need is great and urgent. Everything possible should be done to provide immediate and adequate humanitarian assistance to the people suffering from the scourge of war. Cape Verde follows with the same fraternal solidarity developments in neighbouring Guinea-Bissau, where the Government is making preparations, with the assistance of the United Nations and the international community, to hold free democratic elections. We look forward to the success of the people of Guinea-Bissau as it enters a new stage in its life, when the whole of society is preparing to rebuild its country and to use all of its resources to improve its living conditions. We call upon the international community to provide ongoing generous support to rebuild the country within this long-term process. We welcome recent events reflecting the decision of the United Nations to intervene more concretely to maintain peace in Africa, particularly in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Sierra Leone — and we hope soon in Eritrea and in Ethiopia. Today it is clear that our continent is more than ever determined to harmonize its efforts to control and resolve conflicts in the region while hoping for the necessary outside support to strengthen its capacity in this regard. Regional responsibilities cannot, however, take the place of the responsibilities of the United Nations, which must fully play the role given it by the Charter. As well as efforts to contain and resolve conflicts, there must be — as has often been stated, but all too often not put into practice — efforts to prevent them. They are often rooted in long-standing situations of injustice, exclusion, inequality and the denial of rights. The latter is something that individuals, groups and even whole nations continue to suffer from. 12 Wherever flouted dignity cannot properly voice its legitimate demands, wherever those demands do not receive a reasonable response, conflict is brewing. It is true that some established situations do not lend themselves to rapid or dramatic change. In those cases sincere dialogue and healthy compromise may open the way to a progress that intolerance and lack of willingness can never bring about. While the conflicts prevailing today are basically internal, it would be irresponsible for us to ignore the external factors that feed them. From classic territorial disputes to more diffuse questions with an impact on the acquisition of advantages in economic competition, we see on the international scene various factors that thwart the desired security and balance. We must replace the narrow criterion of national self-interest, or its equivalents, as the paradigm of international affairs with multilateral participative arrangements based on equity. Among the items on the agenda that this session inherited from the previous one, reform of the Security Council is a key element for rebuilding and revitalizing the United Nations. For some years it has been the subject of ongoing negotiations. This entire time, we feel, was needed for the various bases and arguments underpinning existing positions and proposals to be properly understood. The questions posed are complex, and we cannot deny the relevance of any position. The basic divergence, we think, lies in the priority given by some to the preservation of the Council’s effectiveness and by others to the representation of the current body of Member States. We believe that the impasse we are facing is clear and that the consideration we have already given to the matter should enable us to take decisions in the not-too-distant future. We believe that increasing the Council’s effectiveness, while increasing the number of its members, is a challenge within our grasp. In our view, we should not give more weight to the size of the gap, which is quite small, between the various proposals made in this area than to the special nature of the fundamental principles of representative participation. For example, how can one, by attaching more importance to the question of effectiveness, refuse to give the African countries, which represent almost 30 per cent of the United Nations membership, at least two permanent seats enjoying full powers? We hope, Mr. President, that under your enlightened guidance we can make a big leap forward in the consideration of this important agenda item during the current session. Before I conclude, I wish to reiterate what a constant source of inspiration the Charter is to us. I refer in particular to the noble and always relevant words of the preamble, whose implementation will be a constant challenge to us in the course of the century to come.  My delegation welcomes the election of the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Namibia, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. Mexico knows him as an experienced diplomat whose contribution will guarantee that our work strengthens the ability of the United Nations to face the challenges of the next century. In welcoming his election, we pay tribute to the constructive role Namibia plays on the international stage. My delegation would also like to place on record its appreciation to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Uruguay, Mr. Didier Opertti, for his outstanding guidance of the fifty-third session. I wish also to express the satisfaction of Mexico at the admission of the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga to membership of the Organization. Their presence among us strengthens universality, the very essence of the United Nations. My delegation is participating in this session with the will to negotiate and the desire to cooperate that have always characterized Mexico's foreign policy. We are convinced that the proposals we make and results we achieve will contribute to designing the international order of the twenty-first century; we shall be an active participant in the debate. Now more than ever it seem essential that we review the system we devised at San Francisco in the light of our experiences over the past 54 years and of the progress achieved in the field of international law. In that review we must ensure that the interests of all Member States are taken into account in line with the Charter principle of the sovereign equality of States. Mexico is proud of its multilateral outlook. My country has always seen the United Nations as the ideal forum to propose, negotiate and agree on solutions and common strategies that will enable us to face our collective challenges. We Mexicans are convinced that it is imperative to spare no effort to make our Organization the primary forum for generating comprehensive policies, policies that guarantee lasting peace and security, and the development and welfare of all peoples on earth. As it does every year, the General Assembly has a broad and complex agenda before it at this session. I wish therefore to focus my statement on three topics that I consider to be of paramount importance for the future of the Organization and of the community of nations: world peace and security; international cooperation in the field of natural disasters; and the financial architecture of the new century. The Preamble and Article 1 of the Charter state that fundamental aims of the peoples of the United Nations are to live together in peace and to solve their disputes without resorting to the use of force. The attainment of those aims is our only guarantee if we yearn for a stable and secure international community that reveres friendly relations and goodwill among all peoples and all nations. We note with growing concern that, far from disappearing, conflicts have multiplied and their nature has changed as a consequence of the reshuffling of forces in the international arena. Today, these ever-proliferating confrontations are to a great extent internal ones, presenting formidable challenges to an Organization conceived to resolve disputes between States. We still lack clear-cut mandates and a defined consensus on how to address this new state of affairs. This often divides us, not on the ultimate goal — peace — but on the means to achieve it. Given the absence of a new political contract that enjoys the support of all Members of the United Nations, Mexico will continue firmly to maintain that the search for solutions to conflicts, whether they be internal or international, must be in conformity with the letter and the spirit of the San Francisco Charter. Its principles cannot be subjected to interpretations varying with circumstances or to unilateral whims. We cannot allow the authority or the legitimacy of the Organization to be damaged. We cannot accept actions that openly contradict the intentions of the founders and that weaken the rights of the community of States. Mexico has always maintained that the use of force, even when motivated by the loftiest humanitarian impulses, is no solution; to the contrary, it generates further instability, uncertainty and violence. But my country has shown restraint when the Security Council has acted in strict compliance with Chapter VII of the Charter. Even so, the Mexican Government reiterates the value of the peaceful settlement of disputes and firmly rejects the existence of an alleged right to intervene, particularly when it is proclaimed outside the framework of international law. 31 This is one of the most pressing challenges that we must face as we move towards the new millennium. Essentially, we are striving to give the United Nations the political underpinning that will enable it to face new threats to peace and security in line with the thinking that inspired the authors of the San Francisco Charter. If we fail, we run the risk of eroding international negotiating tools and of doing precisely what we want to avoid: weakening the Organization. For these reasons, my delegation invites all Member States to begin an exercise in collective thinking that will enable us to solve the dilemma of humanitarian crises caused by internal conflicts on the one hand and of the capability of the United Nations to respond on the other. This must be an exercise in deep thinking that will lead us to lasting solutions, which will both preserve peace and protect the lives and human rights of those involved in conflicts. Allow me now to turn to another topic that I deem central to the future of the United Nations: international cooperation in the event of natural disaster. In view of the regrettable recurrence of natural disasters, it is urgent to think about a creative and effective international division of labour so that responses by countries, regions and organizations do not constitute isolated efforts or temporary relief. They should instead constitute a comprehensive strategy that will contribute to lasting stability. We have all witnessed the sad consequences of natural catastrophes. Recent experiences highlight the urgent need for an effective machinery to address more rapidly and more fully the needs of affected populations. These experiences show also that at the very outset of the tragedy it is essential to mobilize broader support efforts to contribute to full recovery in the shortest possible time. At the regional level, the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean have taken important steps that serve as an example of the proposed new division of labour to deal with natural disasters. In the declaration on technical cooperation for the prevention and relief of natural disasters adopted at the summit meeting of the Permanent Mechanism for Political Consultation and Concertation (Rio Group), held in Mexico City in May, we undertook the commitment “to promote permanent measures of technical cooperation on every phase of natural disasters”. This marks significant progress in the field of international cooperation. It aims not only to repair the damage but also to include preventive measures, and is designed to ensure assistance not only at the time of crisis but also during the reconstruction period. Likewise, during their summit, held in June 1999 at Rio de Janeiro, heads of State or Government of Latin America and the Caribbean and of the European Union decided to launch an important programme of cooperation in the sphere of environmental and natural disasters. Its goal is to help improve the capacity of the most vulnerable nations of both regions so we can prevent and deal with disasters. To that end, they agreed to establish an appropriate system of international assistance at all phases from prevention and early warning to emergency assistance and mitigation, without neglecting rehabilitation and reconstruction. My delegation is convinced that these experiences deserve to be considered by this Assembly so that their merits may be assessed and disseminated throughout the world. The United Nations must play a central role in making this strategy international. It is urgent to have national listings of civil defence organizations with updated inventories of available resources to help in disasters, and handbooks to guide us in the effective management of international cooperation. In other words, the Organization must respond in terms of who will provide international cooperation when natural disasters strike, what they will provide, and how they will provide it. Lastly, I would like to refer to the financial architecture of the new century. A year ago, in this same forum, I voiced the concern of Mexico about the harmful effects that financial crises have on our societies. At that time, I proposed that the Member States, coordinated by the Secretary-General, should undertake to reflect on how to improve our early-warning capacity in order to prevent and confront in a timely fashion the occurrence and proliferation of financial crises. This initiative found support in resolution 53/172, entitled “The financial crisis and its impact on growth and development, especially in the developing countries”. Subsequently, we proposed to the Secretary-General the undertaking of an effort at the regional level in Latin America and the Caribbean as part of a broader endeavour that will have to involve other areas, including developed countries and the international financial agencies. Earlier this month, in close collaboration with the Economic Commission for Latin America and the 32 Caribbean, we held a meeting in Mexico City under the heading “Towards a stable and predictable international financial system linked to social development.” High-level Government officials of the countries of our region participated, as well as specialists and prominent officials of multilateral institutions working in financial and social fields. At that meeting, we undertook an in-depth analysis of the international financial architecture and its connection to the social development of our peoples. We also reaffirmed our conviction that it is urgent and necessary to define a new world financial scheme that includes a social dimension. The conclusions of that regional meeting have been conveyed to the Secretary-General, and I would like refer to just a few of them. First, we participants expressed our concern over the fact that once the most visible effects of the crisis are overcome, we observe a dangerous attitude of complacency. The countries of the region are convinced that a renewed effort is required in order to strengthen the global financial system, and we reaffirmed our commitment to actively participate in this task. Secondly, we emphasized the need to have a stable, transparent, predictable, organized and secure international financial system. To this end, we, the various participants must accept and fulfil our respective responsibilities. The international financial agencies must redesign their policies in order to respond to the great challenges created by financial markets. They must develop early-warning mechanisms and expand their resources to help economies in trouble in a timely and appropriate way. For their part, countries must commit themselves to following macroeconomic policies that lead to growth and social justice. They must recognize, in order to remedy the problem, the part played in the crisis by the absence of adequate supervision and regulation of national banking systems. A solid banking system is essential to protect a country from speculative movements of capital. Thirdly, we recognized the devastating impact that financial crises have on the social situation and the prospects for development of our countries. In this respect, we expressed the need to advance towards a financial architecture that reconciles the economy with society and international finance with sustained social development. We reaffirmed in this sense our absolute conviction that sustained growth is the most effective way to reduce inequality and poverty. Fourthly, we agreed that the ultimate goal of the international development banks must be precisely human development. We deemed it fundamental for those institutions to give high priority to financial support for the formation of basic networks of social protection in times of crisis, without losing sight of the broader objectives of growth and development. Fifthly, we agreed that the United Nations must play a central role in promoting integrated social development through forging an international consensus that helps support and rebuild the global financial architecture. It is encouraging to learn that in the year 2001 the United Nations will sponsor a high-level meeting on financing development. That will be an ideal opportunity to address comprehensively the problem of social and human development, including its financial aspect. Thus, we will follow up on the conclusions and recommendations coming out of the meeting in Mexico, and on those from other meetings and forums, in order to include all actors in the design of the financial architecture for the twenty-first century. We will be attentive to efforts in this direction on the part of Secretary-General. The United Nations must strengthen its position and its mandate as the principal forum of debate and for seeking consensual solutions that guide the work of the international community in the face of problems and situations that affect us all. It is essential to continue the task of establishing a more democratic and transparent Organization that fully reflects the interests and objectives of its Members and that is a forum that truly represents all of them. I am sure that all of us want a United Nations where fairness and justice reign. Looking towards the Millennium Assembly, we must continue to foster cooperation and closeness among nations in order to strengthen peace and security, push disarmament ahead, promote development and the struggle against poverty and ensure full respect for international law. If we are really being overtaken by events in the global arena, we must strengthen our frame of action. If it is necessary to reform our Organization to guarantee its effective performance, let us do so. But let us do so collectively, with respect for the juridical principle of the equality of States. Let us not allow this forum to lose its prestige or its influence. Mexico will not retreat from its commitment to the letter and the spirit of the San 33 Francisco Charter. To the contrary, it will participate actively in the effort to guarantee the vitality of the United Nations in order to build a better world, both for ourselves and for future generations. This is the aim of the proposals I have made on behalf of the Government that I have the honour to represent.  I would like first of all to extend to you, Sir, my warmest congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. I have no doubt that your long diplomatic experience and your deep knowledge of international relations will enable you to guide the work of this session to a successful conclusion. Your election is a token of appreciation from the international community to you personally and to your country, Namibia, which is noted for its prestige in Africa and in the world. Tunisia, which stood by the fraternal 14 Namibian people in their successful struggle against colonialism, is proud of its close ties with your country and looks forward to strengthening and developing them further in the interests of our two countries and peoples. Allow me to take this opportunity to express our sincere gratitude to your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, for his valuable efforts during his presidency of the fifty- third Assembly and for the wise manner in which he conducted its work, which had a very positive impact on the deliberations. I take this opportunity also to express to the Secretary- General our great appreciation for his relentless efforts in promoting and strengthening the pacific, negotiated settlement of disputes and crises in various parts of the world. We commend him for his dedication to enhancing the effectiveness and efficiency of the Secretariat and to strengthening the Organization's role in meeting humankind's desire for progress, security and peace. I extend Tunisia's congratulations to the Republic of Nauru, the Republic of Kiribati and the Kingdom of Tonga on their admission to our Organization. What characterizes this session is that it is being held at the close of a decade that began with the prospect of an end to the cold war, witnessed the emergence of new concepts and future-oriented visions designed to avoid any repeat of past errors and crises, and aimed to establish a new world order based on security, peace, cooperation and stability. Although optimism marked the early stages of this new era, subsequent developments have compelled the international community to conduct a comprehensive review of the immediate past in order to solve the various difficulties and problems of our world today. As we meet during this session at the dawn of the twenty-first century, we have a propitious opportunity to discuss and exchange views about various possible methods for amending the approach that we have taken over the last few years and identifying its weaknesses and deficiencies. We must then devise a renewed approach that will provide future generations with the capacity to adapt, overcome obstacles, preserve international peace and security and ensure well-being and prosperity for all humanity. For the framework of such a renewed approach to maintaining international peace and security, we have in mind three main themes. First, the change that has taken place in the approach to armaments and to their role in the world. Secondly, the growing need for increased attention to settling regional disputes. Thirdly, the transformation of economic and social development into one of the cornerstones of peace and security globally. Despite the great strides which the international community has made in these three areas, much remains to be done before we achieve the goal of a qualitative transition that would allow us to guarantee security and tranquillity for all people and for the generations to come. Our world possesses huge arsenals of weapons, especially weapons of mass destruction, nuclear weapons foremost among them. It is extremely important, in our view, for the nuclear Powers to take rapid steps to eliminate these weapons, especially given the limits of the current non-proliferation regime in the long term and the impossibility of contemplating non-proliferation as a substitute for completely dismantling and destroying all nuclear weapons and banning them in the future. We believe that as we move closer to the twenty- first century, the international community has a historic opportunity to achieve this noble goal or at least to conclude an agreement on nuclear disarmament. In working towards this goal, it is extremely important to ensure that non-nuclear weapon States are not subject to the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons in violation of their security and territorial integrity. Consideration must be given to the fact that non-nuclear-weapon States constitute the overwhelming majority of Member States and have freely chosen not to possess nuclear weapons. We would like, in this regard, to address another aspect of disarmament: small arms. We all know how destructive small arms can be. Tunisia supports all international efforts to curb small arms proliferation and trafficking. Tunisia, which has abided by all disarmament treaties and conventions, reiterates its total commitment to the disarmament objectives and its strong resolve to continue contributing towards the achievement of these goals in the various relevant fora, especially the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva. Tunisia recently had the honour of joining the Conference, following the Conference's decision last August to expand its membership by admitting five new countries. In implementation of the Ottawa Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their Destruction, Tunisia destroyed large quantities of mines during an official ceremony on 29 June 1999 attended by 15 a representative of the United Nations in Tunis. We hope that all States parties to the Convention will participate in the Convention process without delay so that the Convention's objectives are achieved and transparency is promoted pursuant to the Convention's article 7. The outbreak and persistence of conflicts in many parts of the world compel our Organization to be constantly ready to assume its responsibilities and to play the role it has been assigned in this regard by the Charter. We believe that the efforts aimed at consolidating preventive diplomacy, collective security, the peaceful settlement of disputes and adherence to international legality are foundations of international peace and security and should be further upheld. However, despite the numerous successes of our Organization in this field, there are still many hotbeds of tension and war that require more coordination and cooperation if they are to be curbed and prevented from spreading. I should like in this regard to address the question of so-called “humanitarian intervention”. This is a sensitive and delicate issue. It requires, in our view, a thorough and profound analysis taking into account all its aspects, especially those related, first, to the sovereignty of States and the need to preserve it as a natural right enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations as a fundamental element of international relations; and, secondly, the necessity to save the lives of civilian populations in times of conflict, in accordance with the principle of international solidarity. All States Members of the Organization are called upon to consider all the implications of these principles in order to reach consensus on this issue and to contribute in a considered and balanced way to the debate on it. Such a debate should not be confined to the Security Council, but should also involve the General Assembly. The issues related to the security problems confronting the African continent should remain at the top of our priorities. These issues need the strong material and financial support of the international community if they are to be resolved. Africa, in turn, has given top priority to the question of the settlement of internal disputes. The Organization of African Unity Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution has played an important role in this regard. Since its inception, the Mechanism has achieved encouraging results that reflect the determination of African countries to rely, first and foremost, on their own capacity to solve the problems that threaten the security of the continent, in full coordination with the United Nations. Given its importance, the Mechanism needs stronger financial and technical support from the international community, which would help to enhance its capacities and to develop its effectiveness and efficiency. We must stress in this regard the extreme importance of development, a basic guarantor of lasting security. Indeed, there can be no stability without sustainable development. Despite the relentless efforts of African countries in the political, economic and social fields aimed at improving the situation of their peoples, there are still many difficulties that prevent many countries from implementing their development programmes. It has become a matter of urgency that the African continent receive strong and continuous support on the basis of its national priorities. We note in this regard that the initiative of the Security Council and the General Assembly to convene meetings to discuss and follow up the situation in Africa bears testimony to a growing and consolidated awareness of the need to address African problems. While commending this approach, we must emphasize the need to adopt practical plans which Africa's partners can translate into concrete realities in an effective manner. We commend the various initiatives of the United Nations, its specialized agencies and the Bretton Woods institutions to promote sustainable development in Africa. We believe, however, that it is important to ensure coordination between United Nations initiatives and those undertaken by donor countries if such initiatives are to succeed. In this framework, we look forward to the adoption of practical initiatives that respond to the proposals spelt out in the report of the Secretary-General on the causes of conflict and the promotion of sustainable peace and development in Africa, particularly regarding the debt problem. In Tunisia, we are aware of the important role that economic and geographical groupings play in today's world in addressing the challenges posed by globalization and in adapting to constant important changes. This awareness prompts us to pursue our endeavours, along with our brothers in the Maghreb countries, to complete the establishment of the Arab Maghreb Union, which remains a strategic and firm choice and which also represents the aspirations of the people of our region to 16 prosperity, security and integration. This choice is even more pressing in the light of our country's endeavours to set up a Euro-Mediterranean space as a framework for cooperation between all Mediterranean countries, for solidarity between its peoples and for a cultural and social dialogue on the basis of the noble values and high principles in which we all believe. With respect to the Middle East, where the conflict has lasted more than half a century, peace, which is cherished by the peoples of that region and indeed by the whole world, still faces difficulties despite the efforts that have been made by the international community, particularly since the early 1970s. There is no doubt that a comprehensive, just and lasting peace is the only way to consolidate the foundations of stability and security and to enable all parties to devote their resources and energies to the development efforts of their countries and to ensuring the well-being of their peoples. Tunisia has followed with satisfaction the new developments brought about by the signing of the Sharm el- Sheikh Memorandum, which has created a new encouraging climate for the reactivation of the peace process and the faithful and full implementation of all agreements and commitments. We hope that the final status negotiations will lead to the resolution of the most important issues, particularly the recognition of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people, in particular its right to establish an independent State on its land, with Jerusalem as its capital. On the basis of this firm position of principle in support of the peace process, and eager as it is to see the peace process succeed on all tracks, Tunisia insists on the importance of reactivating negotiations on the Syrian and Lebanese tracks from the point at which they stopped, as well as on the necessity of the complete and unconditional withdrawal of Israel from South Lebanon and from the Syrian Golan Heights, in compliance with the relevant United Nations resolutions and on the basis of the principle of land for peace. Occupation and peace cannot co-exist. Regarding the Lockerbie issue, Tunisia expresses its satisfaction at the recent positive developments, to which it and other parties of good will contributed. It also reiterates its call for a speedy and final lifting of the embargo imposed on the brotherly Libyan people. With respect to the question of Iraq, Tunisia reiterates its call for a peaceful solution in the context of international resolutions. It also calls upon the international community to join efforts to put an end to the suffering of the Iraqi people so that all the efforts of the peoples of that region can be directed towards development and the promotion of stability. Thus, Tunisia, which has called for respect for international legality, expresses the hope that a solution will soon be found to all the humanitarian issues resulting from this tragedy, particularly the question of Kuwaiti prisoners of war and missing persons, in conformity with the relevant Security Council resolutions. Regarding the question of the three islands of Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa, Tunisia reiterates its support for the resolution of this dispute between the United Arab Emirates and Iran through peaceful means, either through direct dialogue or, if that should prove impossible, by referring the question to the International Court of Justice. In another region of the world, the international community has focused its attention in recent months on another important question, that of East Timor. In this regard, we welcome the adoption of Security Council resolution 1264 (1999) and hope that its implementation will enable the people of East Timor to achieve self- determination and will, at the same time, maintain security in the region and preserve the sovereignty and integrity of Indonesia. We commend Indonesia's courage in responding to the wishes of the people of East Timor and the international community. We believe that a final settlement of this issue can be achieved only in an atmosphere of conciliation that involves all parties concerned, and with the support and blessing of the international community. One of the most important phenomena characterizing the end of this century is the growing globalization that now dominates various aspects of our social life. Although it has created new opportunities in the field of economic development, it is likely, if not brought under control, to lead to further disruption in international relations and development plans. The international community must seriously and firmly address the challenges posed by globalization. This entails the demonstration of stronger political will from all parties and the implementation of all the commitments made, particularly at the important conferences of the United Nations. Follow-up and implementation of the recommendations of international conferences is, in our opinion, of great importance. In this regard, we would like to express our satisfaction with the continuing work of the preparatory Committees for the two special 17 sessions of the General Assembly to review and appraise implementation of the Beijing Platform of Action dealing with women's and family issues and of the Copenhagen World Summit for Social Development, which will be held in June, in New York and Geneva respectively. However, we note with concern that, despite the efforts made at the United Nations, which has placed the eradication of poverty high on its agenda, the agreed target set at the Copenhagen Summit for increasing the amount of official development assistance to 0.7 per cent of the gross national product of developed countries has not yet been met. This situation requires action at the international level aimed at achieving solidarity, which we consider an essential link between peoples. In this context we place the recent call by His Excellency Mr. Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, President of the Republic of Tunisia, to all world leaders and to various United Nations and other international institutions for the creation of a world solidarity fund. The objective of this fund would be to collect voluntary donations and contributions to be used in the fight against poverty and in the development of the poorest regions in various parts of the world, particularly in the least developed countries that undergo various tragedies and crises. Our country will endeavour, through its contacts with brotherly and friendly countries and at the United Nations and other international organizations, to rally the necessary support for this noble humanitarian project and for the elaboration of modalities for its creation as soon as possible. This will enable us to be more responsive to our options and commitments, which have gained the acceptance of the international community and which have been set forth in the recommendations of various international conferences. We also rely on United Nations institutions, such as the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the World Health Organization (WHO), the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and other institutions in view of their prestige and experience as well as their interest in the fight against poverty, to contribute efficiently to the speedy creation of this fund. The year 1999 represents a new landmark in the consolidation of the democratic process in Tunisia. It will be marked by pluralistic presidential and parliamentary elections based on full transparency and freedom of choice for citizens within the context of freedom and respect for law. Tunisia has undertaken a programme of substantial reforms over the past 12 years in different areas, having amended the Constitution, allowing political pluralism and a multiparty system, eliminating special courts and enacting legislation in conformity with our obligations to international treaties in the field of human rights, which Tunisia has been among the first countries to ratify. In the same spirit, Tunisia has long undertaken to promote women's freedom and gender equality. It publishes a special journal on children's rights and a code on the care and rights of the elderly, handicapped and other vulnerable categories. All these reforms embody Tunisia's global vision regarding all dimensions of human rights and confirm our country's strong belief in the universality of such principles. The creation of many multilateral organizations, particularly the United Nations, represents the most important achievement of the international community in this century. Thanks to the solid institutional edifice in which our Organization holds a privileged place, rules regulating relations between States have been codified, and common objectives, programmes and strategies have been elaborated in order to address the problems confronting the world. Despite the successes and achievements in this regard, certain weaknesses still mark international relations, and various new disruptions and dangers have emerged. In the context of all the developments and changes that have occurred, the United Nations remains the ideal forum and haven for the elaboration of collective strategies to overcome challenges. We believe that the millennium summit, to be held during the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly, constitutes an ideal opportunity, which the international community should fully utilize, evaluate its accomplishments and build a strategy based on them in order to usher in the new millennium with diligence and confidence. That summit will also be a historic occasion for heads of State and Government to debate this matter. In this regard, we believe that the Organization needs to be provided with all the necessary means to play an effective role in international relations and affairs. Reforming the Organization and its various structures on the basis of the developments and changes that have occurred will certainly ensure its vitality. Among the urgent tasks that the Member States need to address today is to reform the Security Council in a way that would reflect the profound changes the international community has witnessed, ensure global representation in this vital 18 body and consolidate the principles of transparency and democracy in its working methods. We need to stress, in this context, that we expect the reform of the Security Council to lead to the fulfilment of the requests of developing countries, primarily African countries, to have permanent representation on the Security Council, which would allow them to contribute to the tasks and responsibilities assigned to this body in the maintenance of international peace and security. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate the full commitment of Tunisia to the purposes and principles of the United Nations as enshrined in the Charter, the same purposes and principles it has adopted and implemented in its foreign policy. Tunisia is a peace-loving and justice- loving nation. It has endeavoured relentlessly since its admission to this body, and in all the forums to which it belongs, to contribute with all the means at its disposal to strengthen the foundations of international peace and security. It makes every effort to encourage dialogue and negotiations as the proper means for the settlement of disputes and crises. It has participated in United Nations peacekeeping operations since the early 1960s and presently contributes to three of them. Last June Tunisia signed with the United Nations an agreement that would place standby forces at the disposal of the Organization. Tunisia spares no effort in contributing to all initiatives aimed at promoting cooperation, solidarity and understanding between countries and peoples. That is the direction we have freely chosen and that we intend to pursue if and when my country is given the honour of being elected to a non-permanent seat on the Security Council for the period 2000-2001 by the Member States and with the full support of the brotherly African Group, other groups and friendly countries. We look forward to the support of all Member States so that my country can continue working with them towards fulfilling the task of advancing the purposes and principles of the Charter.  ﻿Mr. President, on behalf of my delegation, I congratulate you on your election to preside over the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. I bring you warm greetings from His Excellency President Imata Kabua of the Republic of the Marshall Islands. He asks that I bring to the attention of the General Assembly the various concerns that we wish to see addressed this year. As the Assembly knows, the Marshall Islands was chosen for nuclear testing activities for the good of mankind. It did not turn out to be so fortunate for many of our people. The testing displaced many, and many were affected by the contamination. The Marshall Islands continues to be haunted by a legacy of nuclear testing and the destruction that accompanied it. My own home island, Utirik, was severely affected, and as I speak today we feel that there has not been a full reckoning of this dreadful part of our history. We have spoken about the medical effects, the high costs of treating the victims and the costs of rehabilitating the affected areas. A recent study has proved that the thyroid cancer rate in the population alive at the time of the testing is very high. We are experiencing the effects of these ailments decades after the end of the tests. The medical and social problems that were caused do not seem likely to go away. That being said, there are some positive developments arising from our talks with our former Administering Authority. Recent discussions have highlighted the need to move forward with positive measures, and this is something we fully support. The problems we face are, however, very difficult, and the international expertise we require is simply not forthcoming. We therefore reiterate the call we made at the 1995 Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) Review Conference that such expertise for medical measures, as well as scientific and technical assistance, must be made available. We have sought to have the year 2000 Review Conference fully reflect this concern. If these issues are not addressed, it is our considered view that non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament in general will be a hollow achievement. I am grateful, Mr. President, for the efficient manner in which you conducted the proceedings of the twenty- second special session. That session will serve as a highlight among our achievements this year, and I hope that it will usher in a new dawn of international cooperation with the small island developing States. The concerns that were raised at the special session need not be repeated here. However, we must now look at how to integrate these concerns into other work of the United Nations in the field of sustainable development. It would be counterproductive if the outcomes from last week were not fully reflected in our other deliberations. The full agenda before the Second Committee is indicative of the continued concern with these issues. We will seek to ensure full reflection of the special session at the appropriate time. At the national level we will do our part through the National Commission on sustainable development. At the regional level we will cooperate with the other organizations of the Pacific island countries. The interlinkages between various conventions and sustainable development efforts have always been clear to my delegation. We are deeply concerned with climate change and the devastating effect it may have on our livelihood, culture, natural resources, the economy and our very existence. Climate change is with us now. It must be stressed that bad weather is not climate change. However, the extreme events that have been observed in recent years are indications of what is to be expected from climate change. Climate change is the disease, and what we are observing are the symptoms. In the Pacific we have experienced a number of severe weather events and changes to our normal climate. Kiribati and the northern Cook Islands have become wetter, while Fiji and Tonga have become drier. In Samoa the difference between daytime and night-time temperatures has decreased. The southern Cook Islands and Tonga have also become warmer. The drought that hit the Marshall Islands last year was so bad that households could not get even two hours of fresh water per week. 36 For small island developing States it is not just a question of waiting to see what the research will say. We have to take action now. What happens to the small islands will impact on the rest of the world sooner rather than later. We also expect that the industrialized countries will take precautionary measures. Anything less is an invitation to the genocide of island peoples around the world. The industrialized countries should urgently reduce their emissions, and others should follow suit. We ourselves are taking steps to limit our already very small emissions. Part of our effort is to develop our renewable energy sector. In this regard, I am pleased to inform the Assembly that the Government has approved a solar energy policy. The first stage will be a project to install solar panels on all the outer island health centres and one of the high schools. With the support of the United Nations Trust Fund for New and Renewable Sources of Energy and the Government of Italy, we hope to begin implementing this project very soon, as well as the overall policy. The policy will assist us in generating sustainable livelihoods in the outer island communities. The Marshall Islands was honoured to host the Alliance of Small Island States workshop on climate change this year, and we commend the outcome to all Governments. We would like to express our appreciation to Italy, Norway, the United States, Canada and Switzerland for supporting the workshop and the United Nations Trust Fund for providing the experts. As the custodian of three-quarters of a million square miles of ocean, the Marshall Islands is continuing its endeavours to seek equitable solutions for the governance of the oceans. We are cognizant that the activities that take place in our neighbouring seas will have an effect on the sustainable development of the marine resources within our exclusive economic zone. Unsustainable fishing practices such as the use of drift nets and small mesh sizes must therefore be banned forever. The Marshall Islands has been working together with the Pacific island countries to develop a regional treaty that would address implementation of fisheries conservation and their sustainable management. Various aspects of importance include the need for data collection, vessel monitoring systems, and greater support for our patrol boats. We also need to look at limiting the fleets permitted to fish in our waters; this would also assist us in further developing our domestic fleet. My Government applauds the efforts of the Pacific Forum, in particular the Permanent Representative of Papua New Guinea who, in cooperation with the Rio Group, has brought this matter forward. We will continue to seek common-sense solutions to the vexing problems that confront us in ocean matters. The Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Marshall Islands has responsibility for and is predominantly focused on the social development and improvement in the lives of our people in the outer island communities. One such example is the solar power project I mentioned. We are constantly engaged in seeking solutions to address these concerns, one such event being national economic and social summit. Through the outcome of that summit, we are striving to bring about the partnerships that these communities require for their economic and social development. Many exciting new ideas have come forward, especially for the development of agriculture, fisheries and sustainable tourism. What is lacking is concerted donor support, but we are hopeful that with detailed and pragmatic proposals this situation will change. Earlier this year, at the Preparatory Committee for the follow-up to the Copenhagen Social Summit, I outlined some of the problems we face and the possible solutions we proposed. Those ideas are still valid. My delegation will continue to stress the need for support for these efforts during this session and at the special session on social development next year. Women’s rights are a cornerstone of the Marshall Islands Constitution. As a matrilineal society, we have a cultural attachment to the promotion of the rights of all people, but especially for the women of our society. We have in place a unit in the Ministry of Internal Affairs to assist in the implementation of our policy on women and to address the achievements of women in our society. I can inform the Assembly that a national caucus of women was recently established to increase further their involvement in the political decision-making process. My delegation will actively participate in the preparatory work for the special session on the implementation of the Beijing Conference to be held next year. Equally important to the Marshall Islands are human rights in the general sense. We have tried to give practical implementation to the ideals that we all hold dear. The Marshall Islands Constitution defines respect for human rights as the fundamental obligation of the Government. It sets out the basic parameters for the holding of free 37 elections, the right of free speech and thought, and the right to economic and social development. We hold these principles in high regard, and indeed we are currently in the process of holding general elections to the Parliament and to the local governments. The elections are free and fair, and open to the most stringent oversight to ensure there is no interference in the free choice of the people. In line with our efforts to consolidate our democracy and our free institutions, we are looking at the opportunities in the various human rights instruments of the United Nations. I hope to be able to report soon that we will become party to the most important of these instruments, even though I would contend that our Constitution already gives full voice to these rights. In this regard, we were very heartened to hear what the Secretary-General had to say on the subject. We think that he pinpointed the real issue here: that it is people who are the most important, that it is adherence to human rights that we must safeguard. We will support all efforts to see to it that new initiatives are given proper consideration. As a small but determined democracy, the Marshall Islands supported the inclusion of the agenda item on the need to examine the exceptional international situation pertaining to the Republic of China on Taiwan and ensure that the fundamental right of its 22 million people to participate in the work and activities of the United Nations is fully respected. We hope to achieve a resolution of this matter in the near future. There is still a need for an ad hoc committee to be established to examine the matter further. The United Nations has come a long way on the path to reform, which we all know is an ongoing process, never a single event. My delegation congratulates the Secretary- General for his outstanding efforts: he deserves our full support and thanks. But the reforms so far made are in jeopardy because of the continued non-payment of contributions by certain Members. This is intolerable and cannot continue: the support from Member States cannot falter. We must all pay our dues on time, in full and without conditions. As part of this reform process, we too have noted the anomalies in the regional groupings here at the United Nations. We think it is high time to review this matter, as Australia, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Fiji and Samoa have all eloquently pointed out. There is also a need to finalize the reform of the Security Council. In this regard, I wish to thank the delegation of Italy for its reasonable and logical contribution to our debate on this matter. We must also ensure that the United Nations agencies are responsive to the special needs of the developing countries. The Marshall Islands has benefited to some extent from various United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) projects. We feel that more can be done, and we look forward to increasing our cooperation with United Nations agencies, such as UNDP, the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and others. In conclusion, Mr. President, you can count on the full support and cooperation of the Marshall Islands delegation to assist you in bringing our deliberations to a fruitful conclusion. I should like to take this opportunity to thank Mr. Didier Opertti for his tireless work during the session just closed. I should also like, on behalf of my Government and my compatriots, to thank the Secretary-General for his tireless work to carry forward the principles that unite all the nations represented in this Hall. I should like to tell the Assembly about the fundamental challenges facing my country, which have to do, in those more specific circumstances, with those more universal issues that are the concern of this Organization of all nations. In only my fourth month as President of El Salvador, I believe I must say that I recognize what a great honour it is for me to address the Assembly. During the months when I was a presidential candidate, my country was full of confused and contradictory ideas as to its direction and destiny. I therefore felt the need to counter the many opposing viewpoints with the one inescapable argument — the reality of my country — in order to find what direction that should be. That is why I dropped the political debate to delve deeply into the only matter that is of interest to any candidate in El Salvador: reading the relationship between the citizens of El Salvador and their country in order to move forward. That enabled me to identify with rural people, potters, industrialists and tradespeople in their efforts to build a decent future for themselves and their families. At no time during the conversations that I had in various parts of my country was I asked for privileges or perquisites, and neither did people demand assistance programmes: they all wanted to see their own families' destinies built on a foundation of decent work and their own efforts. That requirement, those aspirations addressed to my Government — and to which my Administration is duty bound — are what bring me to this rostrum to address the Assembly. It seems to me that in recent decades significant progress has been made by our region and by the world as a whole in developing all the political freedoms. My country in particular has moved rapidly during the past seven years through universal suffrage to democratic institutions and the will of the people expressed in all organs of the State. Just seven years ago, El Salvador was completely divided by a fratricidal war; today it has a fully fledged democracy. And in this effort to move forward, we have been encouraged and stimulated by many of the nations whose representatives are listening to these words here today. However, I must say that the commitment of nations to political freedom finds no corresponding stimulus to or development of economic freedoms: developed countries respond to our efforts to bring our products to the world market with protectionism, trade barriers and quotas. By contrast, our nations are completely open; we have complete economic freedom; we welcome free trade with all nations. What is the cause of this discontinuity between political freedoms and economic freedoms? How can we promote political freedom and democracy when the world is being closed to economic freedom? Neither I nor my compatriots are asking the world for assistance because of poverty: we are trying to build honourable nations forged by our own work. That is the aspiration of my compatriots, of El Salvador, and of all nations that can hold up their heads in dignity. It is absurd for us to be called upon to demonstrate openness when the developed countries respond with protectionism. That is why it is important that I highlight these essential challenges. We must choose the path of freedom, but not freedom limited to certain areas. It must be freedom in all its fullness. If political freedom is not matched by economic freedom, how can we justify the efforts of those of us who are trying to change our countries institutionally in order to make them freer? Some in our region are waxing nostalgic about State interventionism and other forms of authoritarianism, as a way of solving our problems. Future generations will not judge us only by our deeds; they will judge us too by what we fail to do. If we lack the courage to speak or to act, they will demand to know why, on the threshold of the new millennium, we did not want genuinely to open the world to freedom. Let me acknowledge United Nations assistance and intervention in my country. The efforts of Salvadorans to meet our aspirations to lasting peace would not have met with success without the proper forum through which to bring conciliation among Salvadorans: the United Nations. We must therefore express our gratitude to the Organization, a house of concord among nations, and to its Member States, for their involvement in the achievement of our Peace Agreement. El Salvador has 4 only one way of expressing that gratitude: while understanding that historical experiences vary, we offer the world our humble experience so that it may be studied by any country that chooses to resolve its conflicts by taking the path of concord. Following the armed conflict, hundreds of thousands of Salvadorans were forced to leave their homes and communities in order to feed their families. Many of my compatriots have been received in nations represented in this Hall. Let me address the nations in which Salvadorans are living, sometimes in difficult circumstances: I ask for understanding for my compatriots; they are in your countries solely because they have to earn a living for their families. They must not be blamed for social tensions that predate their arrival. I call for respect for those Salvadorans. Citizens of the world do not lose their dignity or their rights when they become emigrants. And I wish to send this message to my compatriots scattered across the globe because of the armed struggle: in El Salvador there will always be room for them to thrive. Our common destiny is linked to our hopes and to a hopeful future: that we should be together. I am here not only to represent you but to defend your rights. In the name of the freedom I have so often evoked, let me speak of a matter that has been a concern of the General Assembly: that of the Republic of China on Taiwan. We believe that when a people, expressing its sovereign will through democratic elections, elects officials, chooses a common destiny and builds a vision of its relations with the rest of the world, it is has the absolute right to participate on an equal footing with the rest of us in this forum. For nearly 50 years, we Salvadorans have maintained relations of all kinds with the Republic of China on Taiwan. It is our firm hope that that friendly people will be able to have a voice in this forum. We also express our concern that so many years have gone by, and that the matter of setting up operational machinery to promote peace among nations has so often come before the Security Council without any resolution. It is a paradox that, as we speak of concord for the next millennium, we have been unable to reach agreement on this matter. This weakens all; it weakens the United Nations. It is a betrayal of the beliefs of all the nations that want the Organization to participate actively in promoting peace. I stand in solidarity with nations that have been the victims of natural disasters. We in Central America owe a debt of gratitude to all who helped us when the recent hurricane devastated our Republics — non-governmental organizations, Governments, the United Nations and friendly nations. That debt of gratitude can be converted to solidarity only if we say that we in turn want to do our utmost to help other nations that have been the victims of natural disasters, such as Turkey and the Republic of China on Taiwan, not to mention other, no less painful difficulties such as the conflict that is of such grave concern to our Colombian brethren. In solidarity between the peoples of Latin America and in solidarity between our two countries — for we too have experienced such a conflict — we offer our brothers in Colombia any kind of assistance or experience they ask for to deal successfully with this problem so like the one that tore apart the lives of the people of El Salvador. In this Hall that is the forum for the comity of nations, it is incumbent upon us to give substance to the rhetoric of our words. For this reason, since you have done me the honour of patiently listening to me, I would like to say to you that we, just as you, in our efforts for our common future, foresee that the entire world will live in peace, justice and liberty in the years to come.   I would like first of all to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. It attests to the esteem in which the international community holds you and your country. I would like to include in this tribute the Secretary- General, who bears the weighty responsibility of promoting the universality of the Organization and the effectiveness of its action. Lastly, I wish to congratulate the three new Members of the United Nations. The great and fine ideal that the United Nations embodies is very much alive — of this I am firmly convinced. The United Nations is undertaking a grand civilizing endeavour, a task that is constantly being challenged but ever necessary. To unite peoples to work together for peace and development, to affirm a body of legal rules framing relations among States and to achieve common standards: that is the goal of the United Nations — a civilizing goal. That goal is achieved first of all through the peaceful settlement of conflicts. The role of the Security Council in this mission is more vital than ever, a pre-eminence it derives from the Charter. France will recall this fundamental rule as often as necessary. To be sure, there have been circumstances when an urgent humanitarian situation dictated we should act immediately, but such an 26 approach must remain an exception. We must take care, as in the case of Kosovo, to reintegrate this action into the context of the Charter. Our fundamental rule is that it is for the Security Council to resolve crisis situations. For that reason, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s new strategic concept recalls that the Washington Treaty recognizes the primary responsibility of the Security Council in the maintenance of peace. Indeed, the universal nature of the Organization is intangible. The United Nations must strive to respond to crises, wherever they may occur. While we have not hesitated to do precisely that in recent years and on several continents, I would like to express regret at the relative timidity of the Organization where Africa is concerned. The extent of the tragedies on that continent requires us to take more resolute action. Universality is compatible with complementarity in action. In the interests of efficiency, the United Nations must encourage, in every part of the world, regional arrangements among States capable of handling crises in the first instance. Such is the spirit of Chapter VIII of the Charter. Tasks should be realistically shared between the regional organizations and the Security Council without weakening the latter’s authority. For instance, my country has, through the RECAMP programme, along with others, strengthened African peacekeeping capabilities through assistance provided under United Nations auspices in cooperation with the Organization of African Unity. International security also demands continued disarmament in the context of multilateral and verifiable agreements. This is an ongoing objective for France, which hopes that the work of the Conference on Disarmament will be relaunched in the months prior to the Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. France would like to see the prompt entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear- Test-Ban Treaty, the start of negotiations on banning the production of fissile materials for nuclear-weapon use, and the conclusion of a verification protocol to the Biological Weapons Convention. We would not support any development that might bring the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty into question and upset strategic balances. The United Nations mission is not limited to the settlement of conflicts between States. With humankind’s growing aspirations for greater freedom and responsibility, this mission extends to the safeguarding of human dignity, within each State and, when necessary — as the Charter allows — against States. State-instigated violence has spawned serious humanitarian crises over the past few years. Civilians have been targeted, whole populations have been forcibly displaced, and refugee camps are not longer secure. This is unacceptable. Consequently, we must uphold the principle of international intervention, under United Nations auspices, to assist the victims. Every crisis recalls the need for the founding principle of working for peace and for respect for the law and the human person. A case in point is the conflict in Kosovo. Security Council resolution 1244 (1999), which laid down the foundations of the settlement, illustrates these principles and this resolve. We have set ourselves ambitious objectives: ensuring security for all, organizing reconstruction, ensuring coexistence between communities, transferring authority to local leaders, and promoting democracy and pluralism. The Secretary-General’s Special Representative and the KFOR Commander have done remarkable work. Much, however, remains to be done. The atrocities must be stopped, the exodus stemmed and housing built before winter. On the political front, preparations must be made for the future, which will require establishing dialogue between the communities. Elections will, I hope, be held in the year 2000. France has made resolute efforts in this respect, alongside its partners in the European Union, which is providing half the international financing agreed upon by the conference of donors for Kosovo. In East Timor, another people is asking that its rights be recognized. Overwhelmingly, it chose independence through a referendum. Some have tried to oppose that choice with violence. I therefore welcome the adoption, on 15 September, of Security Council resolution 1264 (1999). It paves the way for the restoration of peace and should enable the democratic process to be successfully concluded. France is participating in the international force established by decision of the Security Council. Our Organization therefore remains true to the values we celebrated last year, on its fiftieth anniversary. But much effort is still needed for these values to be respected everywhere. To achieve this, it is essential to strengthen international criminal law. France actively supports the work of the international criminal tribunals of The Hague and Arusha. The establishment of the International Criminal Court will be a new and decisive step in the progress of law. France hopes that it will be set up quickly; to that end, it has already amended its own Constitution. 27 To carry out its mission, the United Nations needs assured means. In order to deal with financial difficulties and prevent these from becoming a pretext for inaction, all Member States must meet their financial obligations vis-à-vis the Organization. France does so completely and unreservedly. A responsible attitude on the part of contributing States would advance the necessary reform of the Organization, including that of its Security Council. I should like to share with the Assembly my second firm conviction: that the United Nations is admirably suited to meeting the challenges of our new world. Indeed, its mission is strengthened by globalization. Initially, the idea of organizing relations between States at the world level may have seemed utopian to some. It was merely before its time. Indeed, I consider the United Nations to be modern for the following reasons. Our global and unstable world needs organization and the goal of the United Nations has always been to seek a better organization of the world. The United Nations is in step with a networked world. It is itself a network, a rich and unique panoply of specialized but independent and coordinated agencies. In half a century, the United Nations has made a tool for action which can be adapted to our world. The United Nations has not aged; it has grown with the world. It must allow us to face the new challenges emerging in today’s world. A contradictory state of affairs has replaced the euphoric illusion which followed the end of the confrontation between blocs 10 years ago. Globalization is not monolithic. While it is unifying, it also divides. While it generates remarkable progress, it also leads to unacceptable inequalities. While it opens societies to one another, it carries with it the threat of creating uniformity. While it frees up energy, it also releases negative forces that must be brought under control. The movement of populations and the clash of cultures are therefore accompanied by rising fears as to identity, by religious intolerance and by xenophobia. France, which has a presence on five continents and is itself a land of immigration, has had experience of such confrontations in its history. It knows the risks they entail and the wealth they bring. We will give our full support to the world conference on racism, to be held in 2001. Preventing the emergence of prejudice, which too often has deadly consequences, will prepare the way for peace for future generations. The fruits of globalization are not shared equally. The opening of economies, the increase in trade and the acceleration of technological progress all fuel growth. But inequalities are growing between countries and within each economy. Nearly one in four human beings lives in great poverty. We cannot leave matters as they stand. The rapid expansion of communications networks does not benefit everyone. Yet the multiplication of sources of information, the increased circulation of ideas and the profusion of new inventions are full of promise. Lower communications costs made possible by the Internet can be an asset for businesses in countries in the South. But inequalities in education hinder access to these technologies. These impressive instruments for furthering knowledge may become formidable factors in inequality. Communication is also a right. It is essential that this right not be threatened by the concentration in just a few hands of sources of information and the means of production and distribution. France will staunchly defend cultural diversity. Globalization must encourage all of us to take account of the fragility of our world — our Earth and our commonweal. Our environment is not a product, a simple stock of raw materials on which we can draw without giving thought to future generations. True development is sustainable development. Since the Rio Summit in 1992 this realization has been behind the adoption of important commitments with regard to the climate, biodiversity and desertification. The Kyoto Protocol on climate change and the current negotiations on a protocol on biosafety attest to the importance of the achievements. But the uncertain future of climates and the recurrence of natural catastrophes urge us to make further efforts. The Earth is fragile, but so, too, is the human species. The spread of new epidemics endangers the health of entire populations. Inequalities in development exacerbate those scourges. Some 40 million people live with the AIDS virus today, the majority of them in developing countries. The spread of the pandemic in Africa is a matter of major concern for us. I shall come back to that issue. Globalization is changing the nature of organized crime, an area in which there has been a real explosion. The much greater fluidity in movement allows criminal networks to exploit the inconsistencies between one national law and another and the weaknesses of some of them so as to hide from justice. My country is ready to make every effort to combat this scourge. The President of the French Republic made that clear last year at the special session of the General Assembly devoted to that issue. The United Nations has long been engaged in the 28 fight against international drug-trafficking, building up expertise, establishing specialized services and drafting a body of doctrine and a legal framework. These must be strengthened. But, above all, States must be more committed to action. In January negotiations began in Vienna on a convention against transnational organized crime. We must bring this to a satisfactory conclusion in the year 2000. Faced with globalization, we have a choice to make. We can either go along with the supposedly universal economic laws, and in so doing abdicate our political responsibilities, or we can seek to impose order on globalization and thereby achieve control of our collective future. For my part, I believe that global problems call for global responses and that an unstable world needs to be regulated, requiring what our Anglo-Saxon friends might call “rules and regulations”. This world needs rules. It needs the United Nations. This choice is also a matter of sovereignty. As the Secretary-General pointed out on 8 December last year in Paris, the first words of our Charter, “We the Peoples of the United Nations”, make it an expression of popular sovereignty. But in order for the sovereignty of peoples to be affirmed they must find the means to acquire the mechanisms, the means of control and the benefits of globalization. That is my third conviction. The more the world becomes globalized, the more it needs rules. Faced with the temptation of unilateralism, it is more necessary than ever to base our action on multilateral rules respected by all. First of all, these concern the economy. We must define the rules of the game so that everyone can benefit from globalization. We must define the rules of the game between the industrial and developing countries and between the major economic actors, small and medium- sized business and the citizens of our countries who work and produce. In the financial sphere, we have to strengthen the stability of the monetary and financial system by ensuring the political legitimacy of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), involving the developing countries more closely in the adoption of common rules and making private financial operators liable for the consequences of their decisions for countries in crisis. Real progress has been made since the crises of 1997 and 1998. France contributed to this by its proposals, especially in regard to hedge funds and fiscal havens. It will continue to work to this end, as much remains to be done. These rules of the game have to be based on better coordination among international institutions. Since 1945, international cooperation has respected the principle of specialization of institutions. In the future, the task is to make them more complementary. Economic and trade rules cannot disregard the most elementary social and environmental norms. Accordingly, France supported the adoption by the International Labour Conference a year ago of a declaration on the fundamental principles and rights involved in labour. The International Labour Organization (ILO) is an irreplaceable forum for dialogue between government and social partners and for the formulation of minimal standards. It is desirable that it establish close relations with other organizations, such as the World Trade Organization (WTO) and the World Bank. For these rules of the game to be better respected, appropriate cooperation has to be established with the poorest countries. Their debt burden continues to be the primary obstacle to development. At their meeting in Cologne, the G-7 countries pledged to grant further debt relief. France contributed to this. Three principles will be applied: solidarity, which calls for us to grant the poorest countries the most favourable debt treatment; fairness, which requires the rich countries to share the financial effort in a balanced way; and responsibility, whereby the countries benefiting from this aid undertake policies directed towards sustainable development and the fight against poverty. For these countries, official development assistance remains indispensable. France will continue to advocate greater effort on the part of the richest countries. Our action should be increasingly inspired by the affirmation of common values and rules. Human rights are central to this approach. I am referring in particular to the weakest children. The ILO Convention which outlaws the worst forms of child labour is a new case in point. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child must be supplemented as soon as possible by the two protocols now being negotiated, one against the recruitment of children in armed conflicts, the other against the sale of children and child prostitution and pornography. To affirm the rights of women is to recognize their decisive role in education, in the production of wealth and in development. But it is also to combat the discrimination and violence which they suffer. France has made equality between women and men one of the cornerstones in the renewal of its public life. The additional protocol to the Convention on the Elimination 29 of All Forms Discrimination against Women, submitted to the General Assembly for approval, offers women the possibility to assert their rights in an individual capacity. That is a major step forward. The special session of the General Assembly in June 2000 will highlight the progress that has been achieved since the 1995 Conference in Beijing. Reaffirming the right of all human beings to health means combating pandemics everywhere. In December 1997, in Abidjan, France proposed the establishment of a “therapeutic solidarity fund” to mobilize the international community to care for and treat AIDS sufferers. The countries of the South and associations involved in combating the disease welcomed the proposal warmly. But the impact of AIDS on development remains dramatic. We must intensify our efforts to reduce this plague. Only the United Nations can give these efforts the necessary breadth. The principle of precaution has to be the basis for our action regarding the environment and health safety. The Montreal Protocol for the protection of the ozone layer, based on the principle of differentiated commitments between the North and South, is an example of well- conceived international action. These efforts must be continued. We will do so by advocating, with our European Union partners, a world convention on forests and by redoubling efforts to reduce carbon dioxide emissions in the atmosphere. Precaution must also be the guiding principle in monitoring food safety. The combination of concern for sustainable agriculture, the quality of products and the preservation of food traditions in each country explain the intensity of recent reactions. France therefore intends to see these demands taken into account at the forthcoming WTO negotiations. In order to address and overcome the world’s problems, to derive the best from globalization, we need nations to be aware of their responsibilities, and we need also to have “more” of the United Nations. Through an Organization strengthened by a renewed sense of mission, supported by sovereign States and regional organizations, we will be able to further respect for human rights, promote democracy, work for sustainable development and help all to achieve their potential. I extend my congratulations to Mr. Gurirab on his election and my warmest respects to his predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti. My very best wishes go to them both and to our fellow Members, together with my great appreciation to Secretary-General Annan for all his work on behalf of the General Assembly during the past year. I would like to offer a special welcome to our new Members, the Kingdom of Tonga and the Republics of Kiribati and Nauru. They join us at a time when all of us, big and small, are feeling what we might call the “cutting edge” of certain problems. These problems cut very deeply indeed into the lives of the people we all represent. They are the ones the United Nations will be increasingly called upon to address in the coming decades. I refer to a host of challenges facing us on the eve of the new millennium, problems touching on all aspects of human affairs: overpopulation, migration and diminishing resources; economic and financial problems; social and cultural ones; far-reaching environmental ones; and even transnational criminal ones. These are what I would describe as today's problems. I say this because today we are at a special time when the birth of a new century is bound to provide renewed hope for the people we represent. This means that every one of us here, from the newest Member to the great nations of the Security Council, has a valued contribution to make to our efforts to meet this Organization's overriding future challenge. This challenge, I feel, amounts to a choice between two basic approaches. On the one hand, we can continue to devote our severely stretched finances to deal with what I would respectfully call yesterday's problems. I call them that because many date back to the founding years of the Organization. They are most obvious, of course, in the Middle East, where a just and lasting settlement for the Palestinian people is so long overdue. Others are the lingering concerns of the century before that. A few even go back half a dozen centuries or more. Yet we are still using up many scarce human and material resources sticking temporary patches over these problems. Of course, sadly, that is always going to be part of our work. We have them in every continent, every region and subregion, even today in our own part of the 34 world in South-East Asia. But this should not be the prime goal of the General Assembly or of the Security Council, for we have an alternative. This is to give our wholehearted support to the Secretary-General in his efforts to direct us towards the things the United Nations is equipped to do: identifying the causes of future division and possibly inevitable conflict; coordinating world efforts to address them; and devising effective solutions. I hope we can resolve to choose this latter course, as it is what the United Nations does best. It is why, if anyone should ask: “Is the world a better place for its people than it was over 50 years ago?”, we can answer with conviction: “Yes”. And if asked why, we can say, equally surely: “Because this Organization exists”. This has been well illustrated over the last few years. The United Nations has demonstrated great compassion for the people of the world. Together with various non- governmental bodies, it has resolutely sought to direct Members' attention to the major problems we will face in the next century. This is preventive diplomacy at the highest level. It is what we are trying our best to do in our own region in political and security matters through the Regional Forum of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) and, in economic affairs, with our partners in the Asia- Pacific Economic Cooperation Council (APEC). The Secretary-General and his staff are therefore to be commended for their efforts to conduct it on the wider international stage in spite of all their financial constraints. I believe that this aspect of our work is the reason why the United Nations has survived and, in fact, grown in membership. It is why our people still look up to this body in their hopes for the future. However, if we are to continue to enjoy such esteem, it is most important for the United Nations to strengthen its role. The way to do this is clear. We must press ahead with plans for reform. With this in mind, I am very pleased that some of the Secretary-General's reform measures have been successfully implemented. Certainly, a few complex issues, such as the reform of the Security Council, remain unresolved, but I hope these matters can be completed quickly. It is a crucial test of our ability to proceed with reform and we very much welcome the efforts of all who have been actively working to achieve progress in this matter. What is called for, as always, is enormous political will on all our parts and a determination to work together. We dearly hope that this will be the hallmark of our millennium celebrations. Today's world, of course, tests every concept of international cooperation. In South-East Asia, we have found this out the hard way. In doing so, we have learned many lessons from the economic crisis which struck our region two years ago. Perhaps the most important is a powerful human one. This is the need to work together as neighbours and partners, to appreciate each other's concerns and to do what we can to help each other. In short, we have learned about the vital need for cooperation in the hard, practical terms of today's competitive, globalized world. At the same time, we have begun to recognize what we need from this Organization and how important it is for our people. Basically, it is to this body that we look to stimulate our awareness of what will be required if we are to meet the challenges of the new century successfully. That is why we very much appreciate the programmes which have been set up this year and will begin over the next five years to do just this. We offer them our full support, whether it be on global matters, as in the recent International Conference on Population and Development; on special concerns, such as this month's special session on sustainable development in small island developing States; on such basic human concerns as the problems faced by older persons, women and children; on such human needs as proper food and shelter; or merely on the chance for our people to lead a peaceful and non- violent life in a decent environment. We are gradually beginning, therefore, to identify the kind of relationship we wish to have with this Organization. It is one in which the world body as a whole assumes the role performed so well by its many workers in the field. It does not try to take on jobs it is not suited for; rather, it advises, it provokes, it stimulates and it helps. This, I believe, is the way forward. For this reason, I am particularly encouraged by the Secretary-General's plans for next year's millennium summit. I look forward to hearing him review and maybe more closely define the role of the United Nations. I hope it will be along the lines I have mentioned, addressing today's problems and suggesting tomorrow's solutions. On that note, Mr. President, may I assure you and the Secretary-General of our support in all your efforts on our behalf.   Brazil congratulates you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. Your personal record in defence of democracy and human rights, which was forged in the struggle of the people of Namibia for liberty and self-determination, offers an inspiring example for our work. 4 As a sister nation of Uruguay, we take pride in the work done by your predecessor, my friend, Minister Didier Opertti. I would like to express the appreciation and gratitude of the Brazilian Government for his decisive role in presiding over the fifty-third session. Secretary-General Kofi Annan is equally deserving of special recognition. In these times of far-reaching and uncharted challenges before the international community, his sense of proportion and the strength of his serene leadership have been valuable aids in the search for realistic and innovative solutions. We appreciate and support his endeavours in the cause of peace, development and justice. The Brazilian Government warmly greets the admission of Kiribati, Nauru and Tonga, which have just joined the United Nations family. Year after year, for over half a century, we have gathered here to discuss and debate the issues of our time. Year after year, the representatives of the Member countries of the United Nations have come to this rostrum to set forth their vision of global affairs and to provide analysis and to propose solutions. As the requirements of our societies become ever greater over time, there grows a sense of an ever-widening gulf between our words and our deeds, a distance that serves only to feed the scepticism of some and the pessimism of others. Whenever an unfolding crisis and its human tragedy break through international indifference and become newsworthy, it is to the United Nations that the public opinion of our countries looks for meaningful answers. Unfortunately, however, the international community feels compelled to act in a coordinated fashion, mobilizing the necessary resources and political will, only when long- festering problems threaten to get out of hand, making a satisfactory solution all the more difficult. The upshot is a sense of frustration and impatience towards the United Nations. This may be because the necessary initiatives are in the end adopted outside the United Nations framework, as was the case in Kosovo. Or it may be because the measures agreed are not up to the concrete needs, as we have seen in East Timor. Or it may even be because the United Nations finds itself once again confronted, as in Angola, with well-known conflicts of catastrophic proportions that the international community has failed to address in a timely manner. Why is it that certain predicaments generate intense mobilization of ways and means, but not others? Why does human suffering in some parts of the globe fuel greater indignation than when it takes place elsewhere? The plight of Angola and that of East Timor offer two glaring examples of what amounts to a clear pattern of one-sided and unequal attention. In Angola, UNITA’s refusal to abide by the Lusaka Protocol and hardened positions threaten to rekindle in all its intensity the same civil war that over a quarter of a century has caused incalculable suffering to millions in that country, particularly the defenceless and the deprived. In Angola, which has special bonds with Brazil, the international community is squarely faced — despite the limited international press coverage — with an immense political challenge and a humanitarian disaster of shocking proportions. Urgent and priority action is called for. The Security Council can no longer allow its resolutions to be blatantly ignored, as has been the case. No less urgent — and in this case the United Nations is now actively engaged — is the task of helping guarantee the right of the East Timorese people to decide their own future as an independent nation, a decision unmistakably voiced in a free ballot. Brazilian society, which shares linguistic, cultural and historic ties with the Timorese, joined in their rejoicing when the vote returned a resounding verdict for independence. There was consternation in Brazil at the violence against our brothers in East Timor and at the loss of innocent lives that followed. Brazil cannot accept, nor can Brazilian citizens understand, that the self-determination of the Timorese people is not fully assured. We therefore believe that the multinational force authorized by the Security Council — a force in which Brazil was determined to participate from the very outset — will put a stop to the atrocities committed since the popular ballot and will be able to re-establish the necessary conditions for a peaceful transition to independence. Over the past decade, Latin America, long viewed as a land of backwardness and dictatorships, has fashioned a new international image for itself through the transformations it has undergone. The return to democracy in our countries has had a decisive role in this, as did our important achievements in fostering respect for human rights — although much remains to be done. The adoption of consistent economic policies, in turn, has 5 made it possible to overcome the endless dilemmas that had ensnared us, and to put an end to the inflationary spiral that had brought so much uncertainty and injustice to our citizens. Let there be no doubt that the difficulties that we experienced, on and off, throughout 1999 will not cause us to lose faith and relinquish our achievements. For a few days, or maybe weeks, at the beginning of the year, Brazil was dubbed by some “the sick man of Latin America”. It was thought that we might slip back into the trap of high inflation, that we would experience deep recession, that we would once again resort to the panacea of stoking short- term growth and return to the old boom-and-bust cycles of the past. Yet we have arrived at the end of the century with an inflation rate under 8 per cent. We fully expect to embark on a course of sustained annual growth of more than 4 per cent and are set to bring to completion a large-scale modernization programme by means of important reforms in tax, fiscal and social security matters. President Fernando Henrique Cardoso will not flinch in his determination to lay the groundwork for our country to become modern, economically fit and dynamic, as well as socially more just and politically mature. With the advent of democracy, Brazil and Argentina have developed the solid friendship that binds our peoples, and have over a short space of time built a lasting monument to integration. Our bilateral agreements in the field of nuclear cooperation are exemplary and a stabilizing force in the region and worldwide. The Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR) — which our two countries joined Paraguay and Uruguay in establishing and with which the democracies of Bolivia and Chile have associated themselves — has fundamentally altered the economic face of the hemisphere and indeed of the world. Our integration process is not directed against anyone, but, on the contrary, seeks to strengthen our historical ties both within and beyond the Americas. Both individually and within the framework of MERCOSUR our countries have become a powerful force in the drive to set the international trade system on a more open, balanced course, one that no longer aids and abets protectionist privileges at the expense, more often than not, of developing countries. Democracy has made it possible for the countries of Latin America to provide mutual assistance — without undue and unsolicited foreign interference and in a spirit of collaboration — whenever there is a jointly perceived threat to the institutional stability of one of them. Thanks to democracy, the countries of our region have successfully solved disputes that for long disturbed the harmony of the more peaceful and stable of continents. At the end of last year, Ecuador and Peru, with the diplomatic support of Brazil, Argentina, Chile and the United States, signed in Brasilia the agreements that put an end to their long- running boundary dispute. Thus, despite all manner of difficulties, Latin America is transforming itself into a tightly knit entity that is politically, economically and socially integrated. It is in this spirit of integration, and in the abiding awareness that we belong to one family, that Brazil feels closely attuned to the various efforts at renewal under way in the region. The elections scheduled for next October in Argentina will no doubt confirm the political vitality of this great neighbour of ours and guarantee the necessary economic conditions for stability and reinvigorated growth. These same favourable expectations, we are sure, will be fulfilled at the elections to be held in Chile and in Uruguay this year, and in Mexico next year. Their outcome will most certainly underline the democratic character of Latin America. The political and economic achievements of Bolivia since the 1980s in overcoming obstacles that 20 years ago seemed insurmountable are a further indication of how much our region has changed for the better. Peru as well has gained international recognition through its resounding successes in reversing the adverse economic trends of past decades and in the war against terrorism and drug trafficking. This capacity to overcome obstacles is equally noticeable in Ecuador, where, with the support of international financial institutions, political forces will — through democratic and constitutional channels — undertake the needed reforms to overcome the present crisis. Paraguay, in turn, successfully dealt with a delicate political crisis at the beginning of this year and is moving steadily along the road of democratic institution-building and economic development. Brazil, as always, will continue to decisively support Paraguay in that endeavour. Guyana provides a further demonstration, not only of our commitment to upholding and fostering democratic values, but equally of the integrationist spirit that inspires us. It is our hope that Suriname will join in the efforts and achievements of the region in bringing about these positive changes. The transformations that Venezuela is undergoing have drawn great international attention. This process of change must be respected, for it clearly and legitimately reflects the Venezuelan people’s desire for renewal. The expression of this aspiration through 6 institutional channels is the best guarantee that the changes under way will stay on the track of respect for the norms, rights and duties that define democracy. Brazil is also confident that the Government of President Andrés Pastrana, in Colombia, will persevere in its endeavours to bring peace to this kindred nation. Undue foreign interference would only aggravate an already complex situation, which it is up to the Colombians themselves to overcome. It is on the success of our neighbours, in which we trust, that hinges the success of the Brazilian people and its Government in solving their own problems and in overcoming their own challenges, which are neither few nor small. Organized crime and drug trafficking today pose a major challenge to democratic societies. They clearly represent a serious threat to the security of national institutions and to citizens directly, who pay with their own lives the intolerable price for this scourge of our times. The spiralling stockpile of and trade in small arms is closely linked to organized crime and drug trafficking. As its citizens find their lives daily at risk because of contraband firearms, Brazil gives the utmost priority to tackling this question. At the regional level we approved the important Inter-American Convention on Transparency in Conventional Weapons Acquisitions. We would like this Assembly to endorse the proposal to hold an international conference on illicit arms trafficking in all its aspects. Similarly, Brazil attaches considerable importance to the work being done on a draft convention against transnational organized crime. In turn, the continued existence of weapons of mass destruction remains a threat to the security and even the survival of humankind. All actions contrary to the aims of the non-proliferation regime should be firmly condemned by the international community. At the same time, it behooves the nuclear-armed States, as well as the threshold States, to move towards the complete and irreversible elimination of nuclear armaments. For this reason, Brazil, Egypt, Ireland, Mexico, New Zealand, South Africa and Sweden will once again submit, at this session, a draft resolution on a new agenda for nuclear disarmament. The draft resolution, which seeks to pave the way for a constructive dialogue on this issue, is grounded on a realistic and balanced appraisal of the nature of the nuclear disarmament process. Our countries’ democratic institutions and the international organizations, particularly the United Nations, face fundamental challenges today. Our countries are confronted daily with economic difficulties and acute social grievances, such as poverty and extremes of inequality, which heighten impatience: impatience with economies unable to grow at a rate compatible with faster improvement of the well-being of societies; impatience in the face of vulnerability to crises and to turbulence in international markets; and impatience with political processes that sometimes appear slow to respond to the legitimate and pressing demands of citizens. It is vital, however, that this collective impatience be voiced and guided through democratic channels. Brazil’s commitment to democratic institutions and to the primacy of law also applies to international relations. At the outset of his second term of office, to which he was elected last October by an absolute majority of Brazilian voters, President Fernando Henrique Cardoso made it clear that: “The rule of law is the only admissible foundation for the international order. Should unilateralism and the use of force come to be accepted as organizing principles of international relations, in the long term it will be more rational to side with the instruments of power politics rather than to strive for order and to abide by law. If we are to see a truly new world order emerge, one of its cornerstones must be the acceptance that multilateral institutions — not least the Security Council — are the source of legality and legitimacy for those actions that guarantee peace and the peaceful resolution of disputes”. Our societies await, again with increasing impatience, seeing multilateral organizations, and in particular the United Nations, show themselves to be up to the challenge of playing a meaningful — in fact, crucial — role in establishing an international order attuned to the shared aspirations and values of humankind as a whole. The road ahead calls for renewal and change. If the Governments of the world desire a strong and effective United Nations, they must not only change how they think and act with respect to this Organization, but they must also think and act to bring about change in the Organization. This is what is at stake. This is the challenge before us.It is a special pleasure for me to see Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab guiding the General Assembly this session over the junction of two centuries and millenniums. We will lend all possible support to his endeavours, including through the Permanent Representative of Lithuania, who is also one of his Vice- Chairmen. Another landmark of this session is the fact that we have grown. We welcome the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga to this house of nations where all, large or small, are equal. We are glad to see nations from the Pacific enrich the organization. On behalf of the Lithuanian Government I 31 pay our deep respects to the Secretary-General, who has always been a brilliant servant of peace around the globe. Speakers before me have referred to the symbolic meaning of this session of the General Assembly. It may be just a simple turn of our calendar pages or we can make it a stepping-stone to a better world with less violence, more food for the hungry, less deliberately caused suffering and death, more care for the helpless and more shelter for the homeless. This century has taught us many lessons. Yet, even if we have avoided another world war, we have witnessed too many wars. The nature of crises has changed. Member States should be able to find common ground in upholding the principles of the Charter and acting in defence of humanity. We should devise ways and means to prevent humanitarian catastrophes and alleviate profound human suffering. Just this last year, Angola and Kosovo, Sierra Leone and East Timor have posed new challenges to the United Nations and made us re-evaluate our actions in conflict prevention; the role of the United Nations Security Council and its interactions with regional organizations; the Council's credibility with regard to speed of deployment; the role of civilian police and civilian administration; and the problem of impunity. When evidence of the murder of helpless people percolates through international borders, the dilemma emerging before the international community becomes a moral one of the sanctity of human life and strict international standards. It is precisely towards this end that the United Nations system is undergoing changes. A number of administrative measures have been taken, especially those within the power of the Secretary-General. One of the most urgent measures which must be taken is reform of the Security Council. The Council has too often been accused of failures in the maintenance of international peace and security in the specific cases I mentioned. The efficiency of the Security Council's actions can be enhanced by improving its representativeness, legitimacy and credibility, thus generating wider acceptance of its decisions. This would be possible primarily through an enlargement of the Council's membership. The two most qualified industrialized countries could become permanent members of the Security Council: their membership would strengthen the Council and ensure democratic decisions. A broader representation of developing nations on the Council would also reinforce its legitimacy and enhance respect for it: they deserve additional seats, both permanent and non- permanent. In recent years we have seen the development of the United Nations response away from peacekeeping to more active conflict prevention and crises management of civilian. Internal crises often lead to the complete destruction of societies and their structures: repair and rehabilitation of collapsed countries by the international community are needed. The United Nations needs both the means and cooperation from all if it is to fulfil its mandate in terms of its primary responsibility for maintaining international peace and security. In this connection, Lithuania signed a standby agreement as early as the beginning of 1998 and provided a detailed description of its contribution. A substantial part of our contribution is comprised of well- trained civilian policemen who are now doing their duty by serving in Kosovo. A comprehensive set of political measures will have to be elaborated before and adopted at the millennium summit, which should be a breath of fresh air for the Organization. We take this seriously and are ready to assist in designing a meaningful future for the United Nations. Situations that deteriorate into conflicts are ignited by a variety of causes, usually a combination of them. The wave of economic crashes that swept through Asia, Latin America and some European countries has had a global impact. The quick recovery of many economies shows that democracies with free market economies have the strongest immunity against macroeconomic illnesses. Markets and democracy allow for the fairest distribution of resources within societies which would otherwise be feeling the pain of economic injustice. Similarly, concerns about the potential and actual violence which more often occurs within than between States are almost always well-founded in places with poor human rights records. No one today is surprised by news of violence sparked by various rebel groups that feel marginalized in the States where they live. Many instruments must still be designed to uphold the principle that those responsible for gross violations of human rights and crimes against humanity — who still expect impunity — must be held accountable. The establishment of the International Criminal Court is one of the fruits of the new developments in international relations. We are committed to the early entry into force of the Rome Statute and to an effective International Criminal Court. 32 Weaponry and armaments can be reduced through common actions, regardless of borders. There is literally a consensus among nations that weapons of mass destruction must be eliminated, but in reality the process of nuclear disarmament is unacceptably precarious. We see reductions in numbers of warheads in some places and the development of nuclear weapons in others. Also, the biological and chemical weapons which States have reduced have become available to non-State terrorist entities that feel almost no qualms about using them. I see no other way to build a safer world than by reducing, eliminating and very strictly prohibiting weapons of mass destruction and the means for delivering them. Conventional arms and weapons are also weapons of mass destruction of life: half a million lives in Rwanda were wiped out with clubs and machetes that can only be considered weapons. Lives are lost to firearms and landmines all over the world, even in places that can hardly qualify as battlegrounds. The elimination of landmines is under way. Nowhere else but in this Hall can we begin effective conventional disarmament to be carried out under the responsibility of all States. Europe happens to be blessed with good regional security instruments, the best of which was nevertheless inspired by the deaths of millions in senseless wars. The European security charter, the concepts for which are now being discussed in the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), will further build on the ideals of democracy, peace and unity set out in the Charter of Paris for a New Europe on the basis of the Helsinki Final Act. The implementation of OSCE principles, including a country's right to choose its own security arrangements, is fundamental to ensuring peace and security. Finally, regional, subregional and bilateral practical cooperative efforts do enhance broader European endeavours and processes, including complementing — not undercutting — the work of other Euro-Atlantic institutions. We believe in collective security and have made membership in effective alliances of democratic and peace- loving nations — the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization — our priority. The collective security that we have chosen is the most efficient means of meeting our legitimate needs. Lithuania works actively in the Baltic region to create security and stability based on cooperation and good- neighbourly relations. The Baltic Sea region is becoming one of the most stable and dynamic, developing and promising regions in this part of the world. Nine days ago, Secretary-General Kofi Annan spoke from this very podium about a progressing supremacy of collective needs over individual needs. In fact, his speech was a testimony of brave and modern thought. It deserves a place in textbooks for politicians and diplomats. Conflicts are but one challenge for us. There are so many inhabitants on Earth who need our help yet sometimes cannot even ask for it. Children deserve our strongest love, and yet they are helplessly suffering in many parts of the world. They do not realize that the adult world will soon celebrate the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which has been ratified or acceded to by 191 countries — more than the number of United Nations Member States. It is the most universal human rights treaty, the violation of which must be inconceivable and punishable. The newly adopted Convention on the Elimination of the Worst Forms of Child Labour should also become universal and support compliance. This year will also be the twentieth year since the adoption of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW). It is symbolic and crucial that this Convention has been strengthened by the optional protocol. Lithuania supports the proposal by Austria, after its adoption by the United Nations General Assembly, to have this new human rights instrument opened for signature on 10 December, which marks Human Rights Day 1999. States have to give women the chance to address their grievances to the CEDAW Committee as soon as possible, perhaps even at the special session of the General Assembly on “Women 2000: gender, equality, development and peace for the twenty-first century” to be held in June in the year 2000. Ideals advocated by Woodrow Wilson at the beginning of this century are celebrating their second birth at the very end of the century. I am convinced that after many ups and downs, the evolution of humankind is finally taking the straight and right course.  ﻿I wish to congratulate you on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its final session of the twentieth century and would like to assure you of the fullest cooperation of the delegation of Trinidad and Tobago as you discharge the duties entrusted to you by the Member States of the United Nations. We would also like to commend your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti of Uruguay, for the very capable and distinguished manner in which he guided the Assembly’s work during its fifty-third session. There is only one real purpose to government. It is to serve the people, to protect them and to improve the quality of their lives. In their enlightened self-interest, nations also come together to serve that end by trying to create a better world, one in which their own citizens can interact with others and benefit from relationships in the pursuit of their fulfilment. At both the national and global levels, the human being is supposed to be at the centre of the purpose, processes and policies of governance. It is the foundation of democratic civilization to create the conditions that give the individual the opportunity for fulfilment. We need to assess our nations and our world in the light of that original intention as we approach the twenty- first century. The present global picture proves that much went wrong during this century. The economic models of the century have failed to create economic and social justice. The central planning of Communism was disastrous, suffocating human development by stifling initiatives and freedoms and creating oppressive authoritarian regimes. The Big Government of the centre-left era was bungling and bureaucratic, killing entrepreneurial initiative and generating a dependency syndrome, and was imperfect in its delivery as the major social and economic actor. Now we are in the era of the market, of deregulation and borderlessness, and the question still is: what have we achieved? At the turn of the century, we have 1.3 billion people in the category of the poor, earning less than $1 dollar per day. More than 880 million people lack access to health services, 2.6 billion people lack access to basic sanitation and 1.5 billion people are not expected to survive to age 60. The number of malnourished is 840 million people, nearly 20 per cent of whom are children. One of the most tragic situations as we approach the end of the century is that 70 per cent of the world’s poor are women. From 1990 to 1997 the number of people infected with HIV/AIDS more than doubled, with the majority of victims in the developing world. Ironically, in this much-heralded information age, 75 million people are estimated to be illiterate, with the majority also in the developing world. In addition to the problem of illiteracy, the education system in most developing countries is producing unskilled and unemployable young people. 6 Five billion of the world's 6 billion people live in the developing world, but most of the resources are concentrated in the developed countries. Twenty per cent of the world's richest countries share 86 per cent of the world's gross domestic product, 82 per cent of exports of goods and services and 68 per cent of foreign direct investment. If there is any demonstration of the inequality that exists and how most human beings have been marginalized as we approach the end of the twentieth century, the following is a striking example: the assets of the three richest people are more than the combined gross national product of all of the least developed countries; the assets of the 200 richest people are more than the combined income of 41 per cent of the world's people; and a yearly contribution of 1 per cent of the wealth of the 200 richest people could provide universal access to primary education for all. There is an even darker side to the picture. As we span the far reaches of history, and especially in this century, we see that very often the individual in society has been the victim of political and economic forces beyond his control. He has suffered the horrendous consequences of ethnic, cultural and religious intolerance. It is the individual and the family that have suffered the most from the devastating effects of wars, genocide and ethnic cleansing. In our century alone, we have witnessed the tragedy of two world wars, which have resulted in the loss of a countless number of lives, the separation of families and the loss of hope for many. We have seen the untold human misery and pain of the Holocaust, the injustices and suffering of apartheid and the callousness of regimes which have unleashed acts of unspeakable horror on their citizens. Throughout this century, we have been shocked by news and television images of the harsh realities endured by the victims of such horrors in Europe, Cambodia, Rwanda, Bosnia and the former Yugoslavia, to name a few. And, sadly, we have realized that the very scientific and technological advances which were intended for the service of humanity can be turned to evil ends in the service of the destruction of humanity. Nevertheless, in the midst of one of the darkest chapters of the twentieth century, there is hope in the fact that such evils have stirred the conscience of the international community to strengthen the rule of law, to address situations such as these and to ensure respect for fundamental human rights. It is because of this recognition that we have today the most recent instrument, the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. This Statute is the result of a call made in 1989 by Mr. Arthur N.R. Robinson, President of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, for the international community to renew its focus on the question of the establishment of an international criminal jurisdiction to deal with these atrocities, and also with crimes associated with the illicit drug trade, all of which have such a heavy impact on a Government's ability to address the fundamental needs of its citizens. In addition to the establishment of the International Criminal Court, there is hope in the fact that the United Nations has made advances in the area of human rights. We have seen the adoption of several instruments, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which guarantee fundamental human rights, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. These reflect the commitments and obligations of the international community to improving the quality of life of the individual in the various sectors of society. But we must not pay lip-service to the principles enshrined in the international instruments that we have adopted; there is too much of a trend of paying lip-service. We need to take concrete action now. Albert Camus, one of the distinguished writers of modern times noted that, “Probably every generation sees itself as charged with remaking the world. Mine, however, knows that its task will not be merely to remake the world. Its task is even greater: to keep the world from destroying itself.” There is no doubt that the task in the new century is to save the world from self-destruction, and the question is, what type of economic arrangement will ensure that salvation? Surely it cannot be one in which the few feast at the table, leaving mere crumbs for the majority. No one can be insulated from the catastrophe inherent in such a situation. Disease, terrorism, the drug trade, human enslavement, child labour and ecological disaster will continue to be produced by a world bereft of economic and social justice. No fortress, whether economic or military, will be strong enough to insulate any country from the effects of such a situation. Some may not like it, 7 and some tend to forget it; but it is one world that we live in, one globe that we share. We should take a lesson from nature itself, whose hot winds emanate from the Sahara in Africa, become hurricanes in their journey across the Atlantic and eventually devastate and desolate countries as far away as the Caribbean and North, Central and South America. In this era of globalization, we have excellent opportunities to put in place new and innovative global structures that would make possible global solutions to ensure the social, economic and cultural security of the individual. The World Trade Organization (WTO) meeting in Seattle this year, the South Summit, the special sessions of the General Assembly to follow up of the World Summit for Social Development and the Fourth World Conference on Women and, indeed, the Millennium Assembly next year, provide ideal opportunities for the international community to respond to this coming crisis of mankind. In the upcoming WTO Seattle meeting, it must be recognized that many of the measures which were supposed to be put in place in the new global trading system ushered in by the Uruguay Round have not been realized. Giving effect to those matters must therefore be the priority in any new round of WTO negotiations. In other words, implementation of commitments already made must be the emphasis. In that process, we must recognize that a special category of States face peculiar disadvantages arising from the policy actions of the international community. These are the small and vulnerable States, of which the States of the Caribbean region make up a significant part. For these countries, the need to maintain the provisions for special and differential treatment in the present WTO Agreement is fundamental. The liberalization of international trade under the WTO is a dynamic force for accelerating growth and development. The challenge for the next Ministerial Conference is to ensure resolute progress towards an open, free and fair international trading system in which benefits are equitably distributed. Developed countries must demonstrate an unequivocal commitment to opening their markets to exports of developing countries to enable them to achieve sustained levels of economic development. The disconnection between developments in the WTO and the development process at the national level in developing countries must be arrested. The rules-based system of the WTO, which aims to promote free and fair trade, must do just that. The idea of the level playing field, we must remember, is a dangerous myth, and if it is allowed to hold sway it will further the pauperization of hundreds of millions of people all over the world. Policies developed and promoted by international financial and monetary institutions such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) must have as their ultimate goal the transformation of societies aimed at achieving a higher degree of social equity and justice within the global economy. The World Bank and the IMF must apply a set of criteria broader than per capita income when considering finance and development assistance, in view of our susceptibility to external economic shocks and natural disasters. We are heartened by the highly successful Commonwealth ministerial mission on small island States undertaken by the Heads of Government in July 1998, from which an agreement has been secured for the establishment of a Commonwealth/World Bank task force. The World Bank is now developing a strategy, which we hope will be approved by its board of Executive Directors, to reorient its assistance for small States on the basis of a strategic assessment of their vulnerability, constraints and needs. Other financial institutions and development institutions should adopt similar initiatives. The governance of the supranational global actors therefore has to be reinvented with human development and equity as imperatives. A new global partnership of developing countries must be forged with the financial institutions and the developed world to place financing for development on a sound and predictable level. The economic foundation laid by the policy prescriptions of structural adjustment remains questionable in terms of their potential to generate and sustain long-term economic growth. The international financial architecture must therefore be compatible with and complementary to real development. National Governments cannot be exonerated from their responsibilities. There are too many countries in the world whose major problem is the imperfections of their own Governments. Many who speak about marginalization are themselves alienating their own populations, and some who lament global poverty are themselves pauperizing their own citizens through their own inadequacies. We cannot call for a reformation without reforming ourselves. Do we all place our people at the centre of governance? Are we using our resources well and for the benefit of our populations who elected us to serve? We have a responsibility to re-invent our 8 governance at home as part of the global transformation that we demand. The key question that the Member States of the United Nations face in the twenty-first century is whether the United Nations will become an Organization that can deal effectively with all forms of injustices to humankind. We recall your words, Sir, in your opening statement to the current session of the General Assembly: “The aspirations, hopes and expectations of the world's peoples are high as they anticipate the future. They yearn for a world that is peaceful, humane and prosperous for all. Without the United Nations, such an inclusive world, led by i n s p i r i n g leaders, cannot come about.” (A/54/PV.1) Trinidad and Tobago is committed to working with other countries of the world through the United Nations to fashion a global civilization that would, in the final analysis, be its own salvation and protection. We believe that the struggle for economic and social justice must start with ourselves and that democracy in each country must be an ever-deepening process which eventually liberates every single individual from want and places him or her in a position to pursue his or her own fulfilment while respecting the rights of others. For us in Trinidad and Tobago everyone matters; every life is precious. This is the approach with which we come to the United Nations. All nations are important to us because every life in every country is precious. Trinidad and Tobago believes that the United Nations must come to understand again that it has been made for people — real people with flesh and blood and dreams; people who suffer pain and long for joy; people in cars on the street, in houses and hovels, in the cold or in sweltering heat, labouring in fields or offices, giving birth in hospitals and elsewhere; real people, Sir, who may never see you in that chair or me standing here, and if they do see us through the distance of television may be surprised and even disbelieve that we are doing this for them. Is it not amazing how ritual and ceremony often become ends in themselves and either replace or obscure the real purpose? Trinidad and Tobago is heartened to sense that the United Nations is on a path of rediscovery of itself. It remains for us the only Organization where every individual may be represented and every voice heard, and where every opinion or idea could contend. Trinidad and Tobago pledges to work with others to take this Organization back to the people, to ensure that it works among them, in our collective efforts to save the world.  On the occasion of the fifty- fourth session of the General Assembly, marking our last meeting in this century, I am humbled to address this body on behalf of President Charles Ghankay Taylor, the Government and the people of Liberia. It gives me great pleasure to congratulate the President most cordially on his election to preside over this fifty- fourth session and to assure him of my delegation’s support and cooperation during the session. When we give consideration to the scope of his diplomatic experience, the expanse of his wisdom and the integrity of his heart, we can only conclude that this is his hour, when his qualifications bespeak eloquently his ability to preside over the Assembly. I recall my country’s involvement in the struggle for Namibia’s independence, and I am proud that, just about a decade after achieving independence through the sustained diplomacy of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the United Nations, Namibia is serving in such a high capacity. Significantly, it presides over the agenda of the last session of the General Assembly of the twentieth century, where constructive discourse on new paradigms for peace, development and social progress will shape the new millennium. I pay tribute to Mr. Didier Opertti of Uruguay. We have witnessed his many attributes, especially his wise stewardship of the fifty-third session, which has laid the basis for this one. I therefore offer to Mr. Opertti best wishes in his future callings. For many reasons, I would like to express special appreciation and gratitude to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan. My focus is on his innovative leadership at the helm of this world body. In particular, I note that only two years since his introduction of system-wide reforms the Organization has been geared in the direction of rendering improved and better services and better handling of world situations. We recollect the happy moments of his visit in July to Liberia, which gave further testimony to the Secretary-General’s commitment to solving the problems of Africa. The Government and people of Liberia are deeply proud that the United Nations leadership has focused on the search for sustained peace in our region, especially in the work of the United Nations Peace-building Support Office in Liberia, which has been instrumental in the consolidation of peace in Liberia. We heartily welcome the admission of three new members: the Kingdom of Tonga, the Republic of Nauru and the Republic of Kiribati. We look forward to their contribution to the ideals of the United Nations. It is encouraging to note that the inflexible attitudes generated by the cold war have been superseded by dialogue. For the promise of a better future, innovative and alternative efforts are required in all areas of human endeavour. Accordingly, the world is experiencing a transformation in international relations. At the dawn of a new millennium, we are moving from confrontation to cooperation. Nation States continue their search within subregional organizations for the stabilization of civil order, the elimination of human suffering and the maintenance of peace. Liberia reaffirms its commitment to the concept of world peace that is sustainable in context and global in approach. Hence, we believe that equal treatment should be accorded to all conflicts, wherever they might occur. Liberia takes a dim view of the disparity in the resources committed by the Security Council to the conflicts in Kosovo and East Timor, on the one hand, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, on the other. Regarding the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Liberia commends President Chiluba of Zambia for his mediatory role, which led to the signing of the Lusaka Agreement by all the concerned parties. We endorse his recent request to the Security Council that it authorize and support the deployment of a peacekeeping force in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, with an appropriate mandate. 32 Following the relaxation of tension in international relations, there should be a renewed determination on the part of us all to search for creative avenues to resolve civil conflicts and promote regional, political and economic cooperation for the prosperity of all peoples. At the onset of his assumption of national leadership, following free and fair elections, President Charles Taylor embarked upon sound programmes aimed at achieving national reconciliation, the resettlement of all refugees and internally displaced persons, the rehabilitation and the reintegration of ex-combatants and reconstruction. Not only is our Government making every effort to achieve these specific goals; we are also committed to improving the quality of life of our people. In this regard, President Taylor’s Administration remains committed to three cardinal principles: ensuring national unity through national reconciliation, resettlement and reconstruction; good governance through accountability, efficiency and transparency; and the guaranteed protection of human rights. Regarding good governance, I should like to state that mechanisms for revenue collection have improved and expenditure has been strictly controlled to ensure prudent fiscal and monetary management and public accountability. Our human rights record has improved tremendously and remains the focal point in our continued efforts to meet the challenges of national reconciliation. In furtherance of this objective, President Taylor holds regular consultations with leaders of the opposition, civil society, religious groups and the media on matters of national interest. I should also mention that in response to President Taylor’s policy of inclusion, opposition political leaders in May this year toured the United States and certain European capitals to further sensitize the international community and donor Governments to post-conflict problems confronting Liberia and to seek assistance. The Secretary-General, in his statement to the fourth Ministerial Meeting of the ad hoc Special Conference on Liberia, held on 3 October 1997, highlighted the Government’s commitment to national reconstruction. He urged the international community to render necessary assistance to achieve this goal. Accordingly, a donors’ conference on Liberia was held in Paris, France, in April 1998. The amount of $230 million was pledged for Liberia’s national reconstruction programme. However, it is disheartening to note that donors have not yet honoured their commitments. We earnestly appeal to them to give humane consideration to the difficult circumstances of post-conflict reconstruction. We are eager to rejuvenate the economy, revitalize productive activities, restore the social infrastructure and improve the standard of living for all Liberians. Unfortunately, these efforts cannot be launched without support and assistance from the international community. The evolving trends of globalization pose enormous threats to weak and vulnerable nations, which are continuously marginalized in a global economic system. For most developing countries, particularly the least developed countries, which include Liberia, the debt overhang and the unequal levels of trade are perennial problems for their socio-economic development and reintegration into the world economy. The huge debt burden inherited by Liberia remains a major obstacle in our post-war reconstruction efforts. Our debt stock is $3 billion. This means that each Liberian man, woman and child carries a debt burden of $1,200. In a country where the per capita income is barely $275 it may never be possible to fully repay this colossal financial obligation. Additionally, the cost of rehabilitation and resettlement makes it imperative that consideration be given to our request for debt relief. We are continuously undertaking economic reforms to deal with the massive demands of our people and the international community. In view of all that, we call on our creditors to consider relieving Liberia of this enormous financial burden. Debt relief should be considered on a humanitarian basis against the background that such a move would consolidate existing peace, enhance rehabilitation and foster social and political stability. We believe that it would be supportive of Liberia’s desire for inclusion in the evolving global economy. The resolution of the Liberian civil crisis would not have been possible without the close cooperation that existed between the international community and the Liberian people. We believe that the high level of collaboration between Liberia and the international community should continue to guide our future endeavours in post-conflict Liberia so that the gains made by all stakeholders will not be lost. Of major concern in our reconstruction, rehabilitation and healing programme is the condition of women and children, for no amount of planning for reconstruction can ever succeed if the plight of women and children is 33 ignored. Thus, we are implementing programmes that refocus their emphasis towards pursuing educational opportunities and safeguarding the rights of women and children. Over the past two years Liberia has repeatedly sought the lifting of the 1992 arms embargo imposed on it by the Security Council. Our request is based on a principled legal stance that the Liberian civil war, which had necessitated the imposition of the embargo, effectively ended on 2 August 1997 with the installation of a duly elected civilian Government. Thus, the intent of the arms embargo, which was to contain the war and the proliferation of arms in Liberia, is no longer necessary. In our submission to the Council requesting that the embargo be lifted, we referred to the 1996-1997 final communiqué of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), by which that regional organization lifted all sanctions and embargoes on Liberia and called upon the international community to do the same. It is important to note that it was ECOWAS that saw the need to impose an arms embargo on Liberia and to request the international community, including the Security Council, to support the embargo. The Government of Liberia continues to stress that the arms embargo presently imposed against Liberia by the Security Council is unjust. There are no defined criteria or time limit for its lifting. It has been expanded in perpetuity without any explanation. The Government of Liberia reiterates that the continued refusal by the Security Council to lift the arms embargo is a clear infringement of Liberia's sovereignty, which the United Nations Charter defends. Like all Member States, Liberia has the unqualified right to defend itself and all those within its borders. The attitude of the Council on this matter imputes partial sovereignty and has hindered the freedom of a Charter Member of this Organization. The arms embargo has created an imbalance, with the potential for adverse consequences for peace and security. The substantial advance of the destruction of arms in Liberia was followed by cross-border aggression. The arms embargo on Liberia does not contribute to peace in the subregion; rather, it contributes to a fragile situation of insecurity and suspicion, which could lead to instability. Such an untenable condition need not exist in a region with a high population of refugees and former combatants, poverty and deteriorating socio-economic conditions. In our continued efforts to prevent the proliferation of arms left over from the civil war, and to ensure regional peace and stability, on 25 July 1999 the Government of Liberia decided to destroy arms and ammunition collected from the then warring parties during the disarmament process. This destruction exercise is being carried out with the assistance of the United Nations, ECOWAS and the United States Government. Most of the ammunition and arms have been destroyed. The arms and ammunition destroyed as of 10 September 1999 are as follows: 3,156,156 total rounds of ammunition of all sizes and 19,297 total weapons of all sizes. Following are the categories of weapons that were destroyed: 18,420 small arms; 626 heavy machine guns; 150 anti-tank launchers; 63 mortars; 26 recoilless rifles; 9 guns and howitzers; and 3 rocket launchers. The total is 19,297. The destruction of these arms and ammunition does not negate the necessity of lifting the arms embargo. The former represents a clear departure from war mode to the institution of a culture of peace. The latter restores Liberia's sovereign right to equip and maintain a national armoury under the aegis of a restructured national army to ensure proper accountability and fulfil the elected Government's constitutional responsibility for national security. Liberia's international efforts are geared towards peace and security, primarily in our subregion and generally in the world. Our stability is inextricably linked to security in the West African subregion. It is within this context that President Taylor took bold initiatives which significantly contributed to peace in Sierra Leone. Liberia always felt that the conflict in Sierra Leone was primarily internal. Our persistence to bring about a negotiated settlement, rather than the use of force and violence, emanated from our national experience with the futility and destructiveness of armed confrontation. In this connection, my Government participated in various talks, which led to the signing of the historic Lomé Peace Agreement. Presently, Liberia is hosting two leaders of the Sierra Leonean conflict in Monrovia in order to resolve internal differences and facilitate their early return to Freetown for the smooth implementation of the Agreement. My Government is genuinely committed to the Sierra Leonean peace process and will do everything to ensure that peace and normalcy return to that sister Republic. 34 We concur with the Secretary-General's recommendation to the Security Council on the establishment of a United Nations peacekeeping force for Sierra Leone; this, we believe, will sustain and strengthen the efforts of ECOWAS. Liberia has been concerned about its borders with neighbouring countries, especially Guinea. We have witnessed two incidents of armed aggression along our northern border, which resulted in the loss of life, property and the displacement of people. In this regard, we appeal to the international community to provide us with all the necessary assistance to enable our Government to cope with the problems of refugees and internally displaced persons, as well as to address the humanitarian crises created as a result of the attack by dissidents. We are indeed gratified that the Secretary-General has added his voice to the appeal for assistance. Liberia is committed to finding a diplomatic solution to the problem along the Guinea-Liberia border and reaffirms its adherence to the practice of good- neighbourliness. We call on the international community to duly consider the vulnerability of the subregion due to the large volume of refugees and the attendant humanitarian crisis. My Government is of the strong conviction that dialogue and cooperation between and among neighbours will enhance security, peace and stability in the subregion. Accordingly, at a mini-summit of the heads of State and Government of the Economic Community of West African States, (ECOWAS) held in Abuja, Nigeria on 16 September 1999, Liberia reached an understanding with Guinea relative to security and cooperation. We therefore call on the international community to lend its support to the efforts aimed at reactivating the Mano River Union. Since 1992, Africa has experienced numerous impediments to its economic development. There has been a continuous decline in its exports, imports and the flow of direct foreign investment and overseas development assistance. This situation is compounded by the increasing debt burden, estimated at $300 billion. These negative trends hamper Africa's integration into the global economy, thus leading to its marginalization. We therefore call for the creation of a more favourable economic environment that taken into account the unique problems of Africa. We congratulate the Secretary-General on the measures he has taken in helping create a favourable economic environment for Africa, as outlined in his “Progress report on the implementation of the recommendations contained in the report on the causes of conflict and the promotion of durable peace and sustainable development in Africa” (S/1999/1008). Furthermore, we reaffirm our commitment to the provisions of the Algiers Declaration of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) with respect to the establishment of a genuine international partnership. We welcome the offer of the United States President Bill Clinton to forgive the debts of the world's poorest countries, including Liberia. As a signatory to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, my Government has taken measures to improve the environment for nurturing and developing the child. We hereby reiterate our commitment to the rehabilitation and reintegration of children into civil society, in accordance with the Maputo Declaration adopted by the OAU. We therefore call upon the international community to provide support for efforts in this regard. Liberia firmly believes that the unification of China should be peacefully pursued and that although it is a matter for the Chinese people themselves to determine, there is nonetheless a need for the United Nations to examine the exceptional international situation pertaining to the Republic of China on Taiwan. In so doing it will ensure that the fundamental rights of 22 million people to participate in the work and activities of the United Nations, and it will do honour to this great world body. The Republic of China on Taiwan has contributed substantially to the international community in the area of technical and development assistance and has shown a strong commitment to human rights, democracy, market economy and multilateralism. The unparalleled economic and political development of the Republic of China on Taiwan has brought a strong desire of its people to participate in international activities. Resolution 2758 (XXVI), however, denies over 22 million people their right to participate in United Nations activities and contravenes the United Nations Charter's principle of universality. Taking into account the changing international climate, characterized by global economic interdependence, it is essential for the United Nations to review this unfair resolution as it steps into a new century. Liberia believes that the Republic of China on Taiwan can play a more important and beneficial role in the United Nations community and that it is willing to play that role. Liberia strongly urges the United Nations to find a speedy and satisfactory resolution to the Republic of China on Taiwan's participation in the United Nations. 35 In conclusion, since its establishment, the United Nations has represented mankind's legitimate aspirations. Despite its shortcomings, we continue to see it that way. Liberia cannot overemphasize its support for the ongoing reforms of the United Nations. Twenty-five years ago, Liberia called for a review of the United Nations Charter to ensure its effectiveness to cope with some of the fundamental problems that continue to beset the world community. Although we have not been favoured with the usual level of international support to help speed up the pace of progress in rebuilding our country, Liberia is most grateful for the vital support it has received, especially in the areas of rehabilitation and reintegration of ex-combatants and resettlement of refugees and displaced persons. It may not be intentional, but it is regrettable that the issue of African refugees has received little attention from the international community, as has the issue of the developmental needs of the continent. The United Nations must ensure that on its agenda the treatment of refugees around the globe is not skewed unequally against a particular region. If this world body will underline the promotion of sustainable development, the pursuit of global peace and the need to safeguard human progress, and if we realize that in order to succeed we ought to rededicate ourselves to high and inspiring objectives, then we can truly ensure the future of all mankind, irrespective of our places of origin. In Liberia, we have evolved four strategies for the new millennium: first, to eradicate ignorance, disease — particularly the HIV/AIDS pandemic — and poverty, and to promote human rights; secondly, to strengthen the full capacity of the United Nations to effectively preserve the international system; thirdly, to promote universal harmony and globalization; and fourthly, to protect humankind against the scourge of nuclear, chemical and biological warfare, and to preserve our ecosystem. As we enter a new century, we need to re-evaluate our undertakings and take measures to improve conditions in our world with an unflinching respect for the dignity of humankind. I am pleased to convey to you, Sir, the assurances of my greatest esteem on your election as President of the General Assembly at this session. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Yemen, I congratulate you on your assumption of this high office. We are certain that under your distinguished and capable 21 leadership the work of the General Assembly will be crowned with success. The democratic process in our world today is undergoing real expansion and is receiving the attention of all nations, whatever their creeds, races or regimes. It is further consolidated by being increasingly linked to human rights, in particular the rights to sustainable development, global knowledge, equality, justice, peace and stability. The Republic of Yemen has linked itself in complete unity to the democratic process and has made it a continuous process towards comprehensive development. Both State and society are tirelessly struggling to make democracy in our country a firm and established system, evolving daily in order to ultimately form an integral system for the conduct of political, social and economic life. On 23 September 1999, the Republic of Yemen, for the first time in its history, held free and direct elections for the presidency of the Republic, reflecting the credibility of the country’s political regime and its constitutional commitments requiring the holding of direct elections for the presidency for five-year terms. This is proof that democracy in Yemen has become established as a firmly rooted principle and a unique and unrestricted option for achieving a peaceful change of government respect for human rights, and for enhancing people’s role and participation in sustainable development and cultural progress. Democracy in Yemen appeared in its highest form in the direct presidential elections, which reflected the free will of the people and the need for development and stability. The results of the direct secret ballot showed participation in all parts of the country by 66 per cent of all registered voters. The President-elect of the Republic of Yemen for the forthcoming term, Ali Abdullah Saleh, obtained 96 per cent of the votes. A new term and a new era will begin on 3 October this year, when the directly elected President will take the constitutional oath before the Yemeni Chamber of Deputies. The wish of the people to achieve democratic progress reflects their need for stability and for an end to states of emergency in their lives. This goes hand in hand with their desire for a future that embodies radical change in the economic, social and cultural fields. It also requires serious practical action on the part of Governments and international and regional organizations to support development in emerging democracies, and to supply them with means of growth and the transfer of know-how. Sustainable development would then accompany and safeguard democracy, and the linkage between development and democracy would be a condition for progress and a motivating force for cooperation and human integration among all nations of the world. Sixteen States convened the Forum on Emerging Democracies in Sana’a, the capital of Yemen, and issued an important instrument called the Sana’a Declaration, with a view to intensifying the concepts, framework and applications of the democratic process in real life, and to achieving broad popular participation and the affirmation of human rights in those countries. I wish to reaffirm here the announcement of President Ali Abdullah Saleh that the Republic of Yemen would like to host the International Conference of New or Restored Democracies to be held in Asia in 2003. Our world today is witnessing profound changes that essentially represent the remnants of the cold war and that are, at the same time, new harbingers of hope that forthcoming changes will be in the interest of peace, economic progress and development, and that the people, political leaders and intellectuals have absorbed the lessons to be derived from ideological and racial conflicts, power politics and their tragic clashes. The only way to prepare the way for peace and stability is through the language of dialogue, the rule of law, stable relationships and the absence of fear, doubt and uncertainty. Dialogue will for ever remain the only way to extinguish fires, spread the spirit of tolerance and coexistence and promote the values of cooperation, solidarity and integration among all active forces and actors in the cause of peace. The position of the Republic of Yemen regarding world events consists of our commitment to the principles of peaceful coexistence, non-interference in the internal affairs of other States, non-use or threat of force in the settlement of disputes and peaceful negotiations and dialogue in the settlement of all issues, including border issues between States on a no-fault basis. As a member of the international family and an active participant in regional organizations, Yemen unequivocally affirms its sincere desire to contribute to the maintenance of security and stability in the Arabian 22 Peninsula, the Gulf, the Red Sea, the Horn of Africa and the Indian Ocean. The Republic of Yemen calls upon all States and peoples to continue their sincere and diligent efforts to achieve tangible progress in the ongoing dialogue between all parties concerned in these regions. The desired goal is to arrive at mutual understanding, balanced relationships and firm bases for the achievement of coexistence and harmony among States and peoples, the consolidation of peace and the securing of the necessary conditions for development and cooperation. The Republic of Yemen demonstrated in practice the credibility of its positions of principle, its respect for international law, its wholehearted desire for stability and peace in the region and its awareness of the importance of such peace for international economic, commercial and maritime relations. Yemen proved that when it accepted unconditionally the decision of the arbitration tribunal regarding the sovereignty dispute over the Yemeni island of Greater Hanish, which lies in the Red Sea between Yemen and the neighbouring State of Eritrea, thereby furnishing a prime example of how peaceful solutions to differences and disputes between States can be achieved by international arbitration. We hope that the island-related dispute between the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran will be settled peacefully in accordance with internationally recognized principles and rules relating to the settlement of such disputes, and in keeping with the desire to achieve peace, stability, development and cooperation in our region. In accordance with these firm premises and guidelines, the Republic of Yemen will remain faithful to the principle of the rejection of violence and the combating of terrorism in all its forms, whatever its motives and sources, and regardless of whether it involves individuals, groups or States. Our country is combating this phenomenon with all its might. It believes that terrorism has become a worldwide phenomenon meriting investigation at the international level and the creation of integrated mechanisms and rules to contain it and to counter its effects, with a view to ultimately eliminating it. The Assembly might agree with me that there is now an urgent need to review the policy of imposing international embargoes and sanctions. Experience has demonstrated their ineffectiveness in achieving the goals and purposes for which they were adopted and the tremendous harm they have visited upon people, not political regimes, especially the middle and lower strata of the population and vulnerable social sectors such as children, women and the elderly. The situation in Iraq attests to this. The need for a total and final lifting of the sanctions imposed on the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya has also become self-evident, after recent developments and the Libyan leadership’s compliance with the Security Council resolutions concerning the Lockerbie affair. We also call for the lifting of the sanctions imposed on the Sudan, which is currently holding an internal democratic dialogue for the achievement of unity and national concord. Wars and clashes result only in human tragedies, in the form of displacement, imprisonment, forcible detention and flight from war zones in search of refuge and safe havens. In this context, my country emphasizes the need to deal in a humane and civilized manner with the question of prisoners, the missing and those who are forced into hiding as a result of wars, conflicts and clashes of all kinds. In this regard, we have great hope that the issue of Kuwaiti and other prisoners will meet with a humane and objective solution that will help to create an atmosphere conducive to reconciliation and to the achievement of harmony, peace and stability in the region. It is known that societies that host refugees fleeing from areas of war and oppression bear heavy burdens and sustain tragic consequences, and that their peoples face serious environmental and health hazards. Those societies also face considerable economic and financial hardships as a result of hosting refugees. It is indeed regrettable that the humanitarian work done for refugees by certain countries should have disastrous, tragic results for those countries. This is what is happening today in the Republic of Yemen as a result of the steadily increasing daily influx of refugees from the Horn of Africa, which is ablaze with regional and civil wars and local dissension. The Republic of Yemen calls upon the international community to assume its responsibility with regard to this humanitarian issue, which weighs heavily on the Yemeni State and society, by increased efforts on the part of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and a more concerted international alliance among all donor countries able to provide emergency and long-term assistance. Allowing the persistence of such inhumane phenomena and conditions reflects a tragic deterioration in human rights and an alarming regression in the values of civilized nations. We undoubtedly need 23 to develop mechanisms and devise the necessary means for coping with such situations. This is the very essence and substance of the work of the United Nations. At the same time, we wish to emphasize that the time has come for renewed solidarity and efforts on the part of the United Nations, the international community and all parties concerned with a view to finding practical solutions to the situation in Somalia that will help restore the unity and territorial integrity of Somalia and bring security and stability to the region. The peoples of the world seek a peace that is based on justice, equality, respect for human rights and the absence of tyranny, abuse and double standards. Accordingly, the Republic of Yemen, which has supported and given its blessing to the efforts towards a peaceful settlement in the Middle East, believes that a comprehensive, just and lasting peace must be based on the restoration of all legitimate rights to the Palestinian people, first and foremost of which is its right to establish its independent State on its national soil, with Jerusalem as its capital, and likewise the restoration of Israeli-occupied territories to the Syrian and the Lebanese peoples. At a time when we are positively and with renewed optimism discussing the peace process in the region, Israel must realize that a just, comprehensive and lasting peace is a genuine goal for the people of the area. Furthermore, it is a regional, international humanitarian goal that will help open a new page in the life and relations between peoples and help end the tragedies of the past. It will hopefully assist in overcoming all rancour and grudges and in providing opportunities for tolerance between creeds, cultures and races. All this would constitute a genuine starting point for stability, trust and mutual understanding among the States and peoples of the region. As we approach the end of the second millennium, we are confronted with a reality exemplified in the increased speed and movement of political, economic and social variables, whose ramifications and relationship with other contrasting factors are becoming increasingly more complex, in terms of time and space. We are all therefore called upon to cooperate and to respond responsibly for the creation of a healthy climate for the building of a new world order based on justice, freedom of choice, tolerance and genuine partnership in all governmental and non-governmental activities at the regional and international levels. The ultimate goal is to permanently ensure a balance of interests and a sense of involvement in all that is humane and noble and, in concrete terms, in a productive and useful life for all mankind. Since one of our primary goals is the reform of the United Nations and, in particular, the Security Council and the international institutions, we are giving this goal our full attention and support. At the same time, we commend the Secretary-General for the initiatives and measures he has taken towards the goal of reforming the United Nations, its mechanisms and its methods of work, which would broaden democratic practices and achieve transparency of work and effectiveness of participation. In this context, we reaffirm our welcome and support for the Open-ended Working Group established for this purpose. We call for the continuation and early completion of its work, taking into full account the importance of a full understanding of the essential variables in international relations in recent years. I reiterate my esteem for the President of the Assembly, and I thank all those participating in the current session. May peace and God’s mercy and blessing be upon you.   I should like at the outset, Sir, warmly to congratulate you on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly, which marks the opening of the regular annual session. Your wise and dynamic leadership will determine the scope and outcome of our work. I would like also to thank Mr. Didier Opertti for his dedication and commitment throughout the fifty-third session of the General Assembly. Let me also reiterate Luxembourg's confidence, given our Secretary-General's characteristic tireless determination to promote dialogue, knowledge and mutual recognition, that his efforts will lead to greater mutual understanding. The respect accorded to, and the effectiveness of, our Organization will depend on the strong cohesiveness of its membership. Within its modest means, my country intends to contribute to this key objective. Luxembourg is proud of having participated in the definition of the European Union's core positions. These were explained to the Assembly by Mrs. Tarja Halonen, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Finland, in the statement she made in her capacity as current Chairman-in-Office of the European Union. This fall will mark the tenth anniversary of the end of the cold war, which for more than four decades hampered the harmonious development of international relations. Among other things, it prevented our Organization from fully discharging its mandate to maintain international peace and cooperation. This anniversary is definitely a happy one, even if much of what had been hoped for in 1989 has failed to materialize and the consequences of certain upheavals are still being felt. Nonetheless, today's international environment has seen far-reaching changes, and the international community is now in a position to tackle very complex challenges. My country hopes that this historic breakthrough at century's end will be further consolidated. Today is my first opportunity to represent my country from this rostrum and to address the Assembly, which comprises nearly all the countries of the world. Luxembourg is one of the founding Members of our Organization, and in October 1945, it was the smallest. Our presence in San Francisco was due to our determination to cooperate with the international community and to reaffirm our sovereignty. Today I would reiterate the commitment of the people of Luxembourg to our Organization, which is called upon to play a pivotal role in an international environment that is becoming increasingly globalized yet, at the same time, more and more fragmented. While the first aspect of this process, globalization, is most apparent in the economic field, the second, fragmentation, is more clearly felt in the political arena, as social inequities are increasing. This process will undoubtedly result in very complex tensions, heightening those that already exist and creating new ones. These will have to be analyzed and dealt with; to do this we will need imagination, clear-sightedness and, above all, an effective resolve and capacity to act. Our security and prosperity will depend on the way in which our Organization confronts these challenges. It would be unrealistic to expect a solution from the Organization every time humanitarian disaster strikes or a conflict breaks out. There is no such thing as a world government, and it would be a disservice to the United Nations to fail to acknowledge this obvious fact. Nevertheless, the United Nations is a platform and a forum for negotiations at the global level, and we should therefore exert every effort to ensure its smooth functioning. To do this it must have adequate funding to duty bound to respect their Charter obligation to pay in full, unconditionally and on time the amounts they owe to the Organization. This also means that increasingly, the 13 major political orientations of the Organization are decided upon by consensus, thereby ensuring the support of all States for its actions. It also means that the effort to update and reform the United Nations mechanisms still remains fully relevant. It is only through cooperation, understanding and solidarity, together with respect for commitments entered into and for the rule of law, that progress towards a true cohesiveness will be possible. All the Members of our Organization are directly responsible for ensuring that their contribution to the common undertaking and to its progress is not lacking. This was the case during the decision to create an International Criminal Court. We have thus reached an important stage in the field of international ethics and morality by providing ourselves with an instrument through which those responsible for atrocities in time of war and for crimes against humanity will be held to account. The international community will henceforth be more vigilant and will no longer allow those who have been found guilty of such crimes to continue to enjoy impunity. My country will ratify the Statute of the Court as soon as possible, and we hope that it will soon become a reality. My country's profound commitment to the European Union, which is preparing to enlarge its membership, is a sure reflection of our strong aspiration to strengthen both the internal cohesion of the countries of the region and to promote cooperation at an international level. The contribution of the European Union to the life of our Organization is intended to be a driving force for its further development. Small countries like mine tend to develop an acute awareness of their own vulnerability. This is often further aggravated by a considerable difficulty: that of making known to our foreign partners a little-known national reality. That explains our commitment to the vitality and smooth functioning of intergovernmental organizations. For us, the United Nations represents an irreplaceable forum for the exchange of ideas and experiences, but to an even greater extent it must be a tool for the maintenance of international peace and security, development and respect for universal values. A new Government has just taken office in Luxembourg. Its first task will be to ensure the continuity of our foreign commitments. But it also intends consistently to develop our policy of demonstrating our presence, participation and solidarity at the international level. This determination will be expressed through the major intergovernmental organizations, which define the rules of coexistence between nations and peoples. The United Nations unquestionably takes pride of place among them. My Government also intends to further develop its relations with the more remote regions of the world. This is an effort to respond to a real deficiency, which can be explained by our size and our limited human resources. It is important for us to remedy that situation through a balanced programme of contacts. The United Nations, and the presence of numerous delegations at United Nations Headquarters in New York and at Geneva, will doubtless provide us opportunities conducive to achieving that end. The United Nations Development Programme Human Development Report this year undertakes an in- depth analysis of the phenomenon of globalization. It clearly brings out the beneficial aspects and the opportunities provided by this process, while at the same time showing the negative consequences, which are very serious and worrying: instability in financial relations, high unemployment, an unsteady job market, the ravages of AIDS, the increasing inequalities between North and South, the extension of those inequalities to the field of knowledge and the constantly growing marginalization of a large number of developing countries. The political and social effects of these developments are no less worrying: increased impoverishment, new forms of crime and violence, increased migration, the destabilization of States and the growing number of conflicts. Faced with these issues, the States Members of this Organization have a major responsibility to assume. The proposals contained in the report therefore deserve constructive examination, and my delegation is ready to take part in it. Ensuring that there is a social and ethical dimension to globalization, agreeing on new rules for good world governance and protecting the environment are some of the major issues to be agreed on in forthcoming discussions. That is why we intend to deepen our commitment in areas related to human development. The fight against poverty, which the United Nations has declared to be a priority objective, cannot be conducted only in the economic sphere. It should be part of an overall plan that also deals with related factors such as the lack of family care facilities, shortcomings in education and health and insufficient administrative structures. A reallocation of resources is also required as part of this effort. In that spirit, Luxembourg is now in the process of meeting the targets of our Organization. Starting in the year 2000, it will be devoting 0.7 per cent 14 of its gross national product to official development assistance. The Government of Luxembourg has decided to increase that contribution to 1 per cent of its gross national product over the next five years. Education and health will be priority areas for our cooperation. During the negotiations in the Millennium Round in the World Trade Organization we must take account of that context and pay particular attention to the interests of the developing countries. We also support all the efforts designed to alleviate the debt problem, particularly in the case of the least developed countries. The vast majority of the people of Luxembourg uphold a model of society that strikes a fair balance between free enterprise and social justice. This model of a social market economy ensures development and social cohesion, even if it may require periodic adjustment. This should prove an inspiration at the regional and international levels. Through the experience that we have gained over one and a half centuries of independence, Luxembourg is convinced that the principles of democracy, respect for human rights, the functioning of the rule of law and the transparent and ordered management of public affairs are the essential elements that help to promote development. The major conferences that have taken place during the past decade on the subjects of human rights, social development, population, the advancement of women and human settlements have opened a new era of constructive dialogue and shared responsibility, which has made a major contribution to defining and redefining the action of the United Nations in the field of development. We must ensure that henceforth there will be coordinated, integrated and effective follow-up to the steps that have been taken. Those who represent civil society, the non- governmental organizations, are essential partners of our Governments in the implementation of the programmes and action plans developed and adopted during the major conferences. It is those people who work in the field in direct contact with women, men and children who are at the very centre or our efforts. We therefore attach great importance to their close association with the follow-up process for the conferences and the preparations for future activities. Other meetings are in preparation, notably those on the subjects of racism and development financing. Each of these initiatives is part of our effort to promote a fairer and more equitable society, both internationally and within our own national societies. The United Nations serves as a catalyst in this process. It is undeniable that in this field our Organization has found an innovative and useful role to play. It is indeed paradoxical that a decade that was originally marked by a desire for openness has ended with a disturbing new outbreak of bloody conflicts and practices that we thought had become things of the past. How can we overlook the growing number of humanitarian tragedies and fail to see the increasing expressions of nationalism, intolerance and refusal to accept those who are different? They highlight the historical or newly erected barriers which have made impractical any dialogue between majorities and minorities. In these circumstances, there is a new requirement. As the Secretary-General has said, strict adherence to the traditional concept of State sovereignty is no longer sufficient to meet present-day realities. We must investigate new ways to live together in society that will respect the character of each individual. We must find ways to improve the functioning of democracy so that it will be better able to accommodate internal diversity. This Organization, especially the organ responsible for the maintenance of international peace and security, has not been given sufficient means to adapt to new situations. The structures of the Security Council are inadequate after several decades during which it has been impossible to carry out a thorough review. Although discussions on Council reform have been under way for more than five years, there is a prevailing feeling of powerlessness. It seems unlikely that any new movement can result from the repeated clash of known positions. Since last autumn, Security Council action has been hamstrung by the reemergence of schisms harking back to a bygone age. Now as then, the result is an inability to act, so the matter of Iraq has been bogged down. For more than a year, Council members have been unable to work together and formulate a viable monitoring system that would guarantee that the Iraqi regime no longer possesses weapons of mass destruction. This dispute benefits only those who continue to flout international law. The credibility of the United Nations can hardly gain from this prevarication. The recent political and humanitarian crisis in Kosovo has shown that the community of nations no longer has either sufficient determination or sufficient means to prevent tragedies of that scale. In the face of the 15 horror of ethnic cleansing, a number of countries were obliged to shoulder their responsibilities. The tragic deterioration of the situation on the ground and the lack of realism at the negotiating table made military action inevitable. My country demonstrated its active solidarity during that tragedy, because a passive response to such crimes is no more acceptable in the international arena than it is at home. Today, pacification is under way in Kosovo, but minorities must be protected, respect for the law must be guaranteed, and democratic institutions must be set up. The Organization, in collaboration with other institutions, has taken these tasks in hand. The international community's commitment to build multi-ethnic, multicultural, democratic societies in the Balkans holds out to the Serbian leadership and the Serbian population the prospect of a peaceful, secure and prosperous future in the community of Europe. It is up to them to seize this opportunity. The Secretary-General has said that United Nations action cannot stop until stability, security and peace return to the entire African continent. That goal is far from having been achieved, with serious conflicts taking place in central Africa and in Angola. But there are glimmers of light in Sierra Leone, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in the Horn of Africa. The crises there, while not yet resolved, are at least on the path of negotiation. It is encouraging to note that this progress has been achieved thanks to the active participation of the countries of the region. We cannot allow the fate of Africa to slip out of the field of action of the international community. We must control the diverse situations relating to politics, development and the democratization of society to enable the continent to recover its proper place in the comity of nations. That can be achieved only through sustained, concerted medium-term and long-term action by the international community and by the United Nations system. My country will participate fully in these efforts. In East Timor it seemed that, after 25 years of injustice and oppression, there was a process that would give the Timorese people an opportunity peacefully to take charge of their future. Their desire for independence was freely and clearly expressed under United Nations auspices. Despite the Indonesian authorities having committed themselves to guaranteeing order and security before and after the popular consultation, grave violations occurred in East Timor, followed by massacres and the large-scale deportation of civilians. We welcome the dispatch of a multinational force under United Nations authority to put a rapid end to the violence and the atrocities, and to repatriate people in decent conditions. We support the efforts of the Secretary-General and of the United Nations Mission in East Timor to continue the process leading to the independence of East Timor. We must quickly improve the island's humanitarian situation, which continues to deteriorate, inflicting suffering on the population concerned. In the Middle East, after years of deadlock, Israelis and Palestinians have resumed negotiations with the participation of other parties to the peace process, with the declared intention of concluding them by the autumn of 2000, which would coincide with the Millennium Assembly. Could anyone imagine a finer symbol of concerted international action to restore peace and security than lasting reconciliation in a land that is the cradle of so many religions and so many civilizations? The Millennium Summit will give us the chance to take stock of what has been accomplished and of what the complex decade of the 1990s has brought us, as well as to chart the course for future action. The Secretary- General has outlined this in his report on the work of the Organization. We must give him effective tools to forestall catastrophes, whether caused by the elements or by the hand of man, and to coordinate our work to minimize the consequences of tragedies we are unable to avert. In declaring its determination to tackle humanitarian challenges in a spirit of prevention rather than of reaction, the Organization has set itself an ambitious goal. It is up to us to prove our will and our capacity to work effectively to reach that goal.   Allow me at the outset to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Foreign Minister of Namibia, on his election as President of the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. His talent, skills and experience in international affairs guarantee the wise conduct and direction of this session. Our gratitude goes to the outgoing President, His Excellency Mr. Didier Opertti. Since the beginning of the fifty-third session of the General Assembly, my country, Bosnia and Herzegovina, has achieved remarkable progress in implementation of the Dayton/Paris Peace Accords — progress, I might even dare to say, that is encouraging. The progress is visible in the further strengthening of peace, improvements in efficiency and the stabilization not only of common institutions but also of the institutions of both Entities as well as of local government bodies. This progress is also evident in the further promotion and affirmation of democratic values, human rights and freedoms and even in the return of displaced persons and refugees. This progress has also been noted in numerous reports by authoritative international representatives and institutions from the Council of Europe, the European Union, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), the High Representative and participants in the Stability Pact Summit. All of them confirmed that we have been moving in the right direction. I do not want to suggest that the progress that has been made is spectacular and that we in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the international players involved in my country, are filled with great joy. Nonetheless, despite all the criticism and all of the shortcomings, progress is obvious, and that is a fact worthy of our attention, if for no other reason than that it is proof that Bosnia and Herzegovina is starting slowly and surely to move away from political, humanitarian, economic and almost every other form of stagnation. It is also proof that Bosnia and Herzegovina is moving away from the state of deep internal mistrust, doubt and reservation which has for a long time existed between the two Entities and different constitutive people, and between their political leaders and representatives in common institutions. It is also a reflection of the state of mind and general mood among the citizens. I believe that it would not be too optimistic to claim that those positive results and developments are evidence of a higher potential and the growing will to find a way out of the difficult and depressing state in which Bosnia and Herzegovina was a prisoner for almost a whole decade. Of course, there are still many issues which we need to work on regarding the Peace Agreement implementation and the implementation of the conclusions of the Peace Implementation Council contained in the Bonn and Madrid documents, although it also cannot be disputed that, unfortunately, we have reached unbalanced results in the two Entities. 36 However, this year the common institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina have been working with greater effectiveness, intensity and coordination. Furthermore, 272,000 displaced persons and 343,000 refugees have returned to both Entities. However, the return remains one of the most difficult and painful humanitarian, economic and political issues, especially the so-called minority return. On different levels, the minority return is still being slowed down, manipulated, blocked and politically exploited. However, we are not accepting the situation. Minority return is not coming off our agenda; rather, it is increasingly becoming an indicator of success, demonstrating the capabilities and responsibilities of many political leaders from the local to the State level. The public at large — the voters — are monitoring and assessing this process daily. The return of refugees under conditions set by us is the barometer of reconciliation, respect for human rights and stability in general. Reform of the judicial system has also been initiated, and it is aimed at the complete professionalization, modernization and independence of judges and prosecutors, in accordance with the norms and standards of the democratic societies of contemporary Europe and the world. The reconstruction of the Ministry of the Interior is also under way, as well as the modernization, professional training and education of local police. The recruitment of policemen and policewomen reflects the demographic picture of the population. Finally, there has also been progress in cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, although such cooperation is still not complete in the region as a whole. Starting with the current school year, children in the schools of Bosnia and Herzegovina are attending classes in accordance with new programmes which reflect the present time and look to our common future. The school programmes exclude contents which, according to the common multinational commissions and international representatives, could represent a threat and a danger to the fragile confidence and understanding of the young generations. Significant results have been achieved through a programme of economic and infrastructural reconstruction. But the restoration of industrial capacity has brought it up to only one third of its pre-war level. We still have a high number of unemployed and socially dependent categories. That is why Bosnia and Herzegovina will need international assistance for a longer period of time. However, that would be an investment not only in our future but in the future of everyone. Activities are under way in regulating the sensitive but vital field of public information in both Entities. A set of regulations on the organization and functioning of broadcasting is in the process of being drawn up. Significant measures have been undertaken in the sphere of economic reform. In addition, the customs law has entered into force, the reform of the banking system and financial transactions has been launched and the first results have been achieved in the privatization of small enterprises. Preparations for the privatization of larger public enterprises and industrial conglomerates, which were an inheritance from the socialist period, are under way. Bosnia and Herzegovina is speeding up its activities in these and many other areas as a reflection of its strong orientation towards the building of democracy and civil society, an open market economy and the enlargement of human rights and, by doing so, it is meeting the conditions for admission to the Council of Europe and getting closer to the European Union and trans-Atlantic institutions. Bosnia and Herzegovina has increased its cooperation with the European Union and North Atlantic groupings, at the same time benefiting from the various forms of support and assistance that those institutions have provided to us. In that regard, Bosnia and Herzegovina was particularly encouraged by the adoption last year of the European Union Declaration on special relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Consultative Task Force established pursuant to that document has intensified its work in assisting us to overcome a number of technical, legal and organizational problems in the relationship between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Union. This has strengthened the functioning of State and Entity institutions and is enabling us to cooperate more successfully with the European Union. For these and many other results which cannot be mentioned because of the time limitations, we have to thank the international community, which gave direct and indirect assistance, and we are especially grateful to the High Representative, who used his right to impose solutions when we in Bosnia and Herzegovina were unable to reach agreement through the normal democratic process. All of those efforts should warn us that the presence of the international community and its role in Bosnia and Herzegovina is still indispensable; it remains a guarantor that life in Bosnia and Herzegovina will move towards normalization. I believe that one of the most convincing pieces of evidence of the progress which we are witnessing in Bosnia and Herzegovina was its organization and hosting of the Summit of the Stability 37 Pact for South-Eastern Europe, which took place on 29 and 30 July this year in Sarajevo. As the Assembly may recall, Sarajevo has hosted leaders of the States members of European Union, the Russian Federation, Canada, the United States of America, Japan, the Central and Eastern European countries, the most important multilateral institutions, such as this one, and, of course, the countries of South-Eastern Europe — the very members of the Stability Pact. At that historic event, the common institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the bodies and organizations from both Entities and many individual actors of all nationalities, confirmed not only their abilities and their capabilities, but also their belief in and readiness to make joint endeavours in their respective and common interests. I am deeply convinced that the numerous offers of congratulations and recognition which were forwarded to us on that occasion from the many prominent European and world heads of State gathered in Sarajevo were more than a simple expression of diplomatic courtesy. As a unique contribution to the objectives of the Stability Pact, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia have signed the border agreement, thereby removing this sensitive issue from our respective agendas. We are convinced that the Stability Pact and the declaration adopted in Sarajevo have opened new perspectives to Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as to all the other countries in the region. This has given birth to a stable and definite solution to a series of catastrophic events of Biblical proportions and the fast recovery of peoples and countries that have paid an extremely high price for ignorance, for political and military adventurism and for flagrant violations of the norms of international relations and international humanitarian law. The guarantees of the success of the goals of the Stability Pact — peace, prosperity and security for our part of the world — indeed depend upon the determination and preparedness of the European Union, the OSCE, the Council of Europe, the United Nations and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), as well as other international organizations, institutions and regional initiatives. The guarantee of their accomplishment also depends upon the fact that the European Union and the United States of America have made the Stability Pact a priority in their new trans-Atlantic programme, and the European Union and the Russian Federation have made the Pact the priority in their political dialogue. Bearing all of this in mind, we in Bosnia and Herzegovina are determined to embrace the Stability Pact in its entirety, to build on it and to accomplish our objectives through concrete contributions to its success, through our own initiatives and creative activities and through the development of regional cooperation within the framework of multilateral and bilateral agreements. In that context, I wish from this podium once again not only to reaffirm the indispensable role of the Organization in the implementation of the Dayton/Paris Agreement and the Stability Pact, but also to reiterate my gratitude for all the efforts, contributions and many sacrifices made for Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have witnessed in this past decade the capabilities and efficiencies of international organizations, and especially of the United Nations. At the same time, unfortunately, we have noticed some weaknesses and imperfections that endanger the role of the Organization as a vital and irreplaceable Organization for the twenty-first century. I believe that none of us has any doubts that the United Nations is ready and able to pursue its noble mission to continue to strengthen and develop its purpose and ideals in the coming century. Even if the United Nations has not achieved all of its goals, it was able to safeguard global peace, initiate and make possible sustainable development, appease many injustices worldwide and, on top of all that, to come to very clear visions about its own reforms. The United Nations started reforming itself several years ago but has not yet finished this task. This path should indeed be vigorously pursued. I am of the view that if the United Nations had the courage to change the world, it can and must find the determination to change itself more quickly and to adapt itself to face the challenges of the next century. The millennium summit could be envisaged as a great opportunity for heads of State and Government of Member States meeting in the year 2000 to verify and adopt a large part of these reforms. Bosnia and Herzegovina has thus far been to a greater or lesser extent an object of consideration within many international organizations and forums. The time and the context that dictated such a position are fortunately coming to an end. We are now becoming aware of the necessity of 38 taking a more active, creative and responsible role in international relations. That is why we observe with a more critical eye the duties that we have taken on as a full member of the family of nations, but that we have not yet carried out or accomplished fully. Such an orientation is more a result of the fact that we feel more self-confident and are more and more trustful towards our friends and partners in the United Nations and other international organizations, forums and initiatives. An expression of this is the decision taken by Bosnia and Herzegovina to reduce its military expenses by 15 per cent in the hope of giving an example to other nations. Allow me to conclude this statement by quoting a brilliant diplomat who once said, “People and States act wisely only after they have exhausted all other alternatives.”First let me congratulate you, Sir, the Foreign Minister of Namibia, on your election as President of the General Assembly this session. I certainly recall my meetings with you and your President in your country last year. I also wish to welcome three new Members to the United Nations — Kiribati, Nauru and Tonga — all very close friends and neighbours of New Zealand. I trust that the faith they have shown in the United Nations will be fulfilled in the years ahead, and we certainly look forward to working closely with them. When addressing this Assembly, especially as a representative of a smaller Member State, one is reminded 10 that the United Nations must remain the fundamental point of reference in international relations. Indeed, that is a truth that all Member States have an obligation to acknowledge. Furthermore, it is of course sound policy for all who need and rely on the rule of international law in place of lawlessness. And it is particularly important to restate it at this time. The United Nations collective security framework, which is one of the fundamental elements of the Charter together with cooperation on economic and social problems and promoting respect for human rights, has perhaps never been more severely tested than in this last year of the twentieth century. Armed conflicts, many of them internal and ethnically based, have continued to present a serious moral challenge to the international community, and they are likely to do so for the foreseeable future. The Security Council's response to these problems does not always increase our confidence in the Organization. The Secretary-General's remarks in his statement at the beginning of this debate about the need to reconcile universal legitimacy with effectiveness in defence of human rights were most timely. New Zealanders place a very good deal of faith in the United Nations: when we see on our television screens evidence of violence and inhumanity against the vulnerable, and we are told that the Security Council cannot reach an agreement on collective action, we are left worried, and wondering whether our trust in the Security Council is well placed. A Council which loses the trust of the people is a Council which will become irrelevant. I want to talk to the Assembly about two extremely serious challenges the Council faced this year: Kosovo and East Timor. Both highlight the importance of the actions of the Security Council. In East Timor, following President Habibie's courageous offer to the East Timorese people, prompt and effective action was taken by the Security Council to set in train the popular consultation process. The ballot — undertaken in extremely difficult circumstances by highly committed United Nations workers, international and local, all of whom deserve acclaim — produced a resounding and incontrovertible expression of the will of the East Timorese people. This was the essential basis for the international community's response since the ballot. Post-ballot events were appallingly tragic and have rightly provoked a strong reaction around the world. The dispatch to Jakarta and Dili of the Security Council mission led by Ambassador Andjaba of Namibia was a key step in addressing this grievous situation. The efforts made by representatives of all countries present at the time of the meeting of Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council leaders in Auckland, joined by the British Foreign Secretary representing the European Union, reinforced the Secretary-General's urging that Indonesia accept the offer of international help. The assistance could not have come too early. New Zealand is proud to be a contributor, alongside the forces of other nations from the region and from further afield, and under the leadership of Australia, to the United-Nations-authorized multinational force that is now operating in East Timor. Our soldiers from New Zealand are on the ground in East Timor right now. We are prepared also to take part in the United Nations peacekeeping operation foreshadowed in Security Council resolution 1264 (1999), and we urge the Council to take prompt action — next week would not be too soon — to establish this operation, which would be part of the United Nations transitional administration in East Timor. We are contributing to the efforts of humanitarian agencies to provide support to the hundreds of thousands of ordinary people who have been displaced in East Timor; those currently in West Timor should be speedily repatriated. New Zealand has added its voice to those who believe that the people responsible for crimes against humanity in East Timor should be brought to account. The overriding objective must now be to ensure the realization of the 30 August ballot outcome and East Timor's transition to independence. It is clear that in laying the basis for East Timor's future, the United Nations will be the indispensable organization. It is inevitable that comparison will be made between East Timor and Kosovo. In Kosovo the world saw a grave humanitarian crisis with the Security Council unable to act. In New Zealand's view, collective action to try to put a stop to a humanitarian disaster involving genocide and the most serious crimes against humanity should never be held hostage to the veto. When it is, the Security Council loses its credibility and its relevance. I need hardly reiterate New Zealand's continuing opposition to the veto, voiced since San Francisco in 1945. While it is understandable that national interests will influence how members vote in the Security Council, we have never accepted that some narrow interests of any one of five countries should be able to override the will of a clear majority of members. The adoption by the Security Council of its resolution 1244 (1999) of 10 June, which provided the international community's endorsement of a political solution to the Kosovo conflict, was certainly greeted with much relief in most quarters, including in New Zealand. The resolution was proof, if any were needed, that the United Nations remains, as in East Timor, the indispensable organization. And as the Secretary-General observed at the time, it also gave strong legal underpinning to the task ahead, a task which, he noted, is daunting. The contribution of the dedicated United Nations and specialized agency staff who are now working with little fanfare in Kosovo certainly deserves our recognition. Both Kosovo and East Timor have put the Security Council to the test. In their own ways they have challenged this Organization's capacity to take effective action in the face of severe difficulties. The world must never again witness horrors such as those in Kosovo whilst the Security Council remains impotent. The case of East Timor shows that the Security Council can react swiftly and effectively when the will exists. For this to be possible, the fullest commitment to support those humanitarian ideals that are the basis of the United Nations Charter remains essential. The adoption of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court shows such a commitment. The international community must now deliver on its promise, with signature and early ratification of that Statute. As we know, the United Nations also has before it the pressing demands of the various and sometimes interrelated conflicts throughout Africa with, of course, their appalling humanitarian consequences. Who can put out of their minds the images of atrocities we have seen from Sierra Leone, for instance? Yet the Council's response has until very recently been low-level. Once again, the credibility of the Security Council depends in large part on its being seen as even-handed in its attention to crises, wherever they may occur, and whether the Cable News Network (CNN) is there or not. For much of the past year we have seen the Council virtually paralysed on the important question of disarmaming Iraq of its weapons of mass destruction. In the meantime, this potentially very serious threat to the security of the region remains unresolved. The reason again has been the very sharp divisions among the permanent members, which by virtue of the veto power can block any action. This situation remains unacceptable. New Zealand's awareness of the importance of the role of collective action has also been heightened by recent events in our own immediate region. Here, the United Nations demonstrated its ability to respond to the different demands of supporting the regionally inspired peace process on the island of Bougainville, part of Papua New Guinea, and of assessing the needs created by disruptions to the population on Guadalcanal in the Solomon Islands. The United Nations must be capable of responding effectively. Small and vulnerable nations in particular need confidence in the United Nations, as it may be their only hope in times of trouble. I am very concerned therefore by the apparent trend away from financing new peacekeeping operations by means of assessed contributions and an increasing reliance instead on voluntary funding. This, of course, poses a threat to the collective responsibility that is at the heart of this Organization. In practical terms it is likely to mean that those regions which fail to attract donor support will not receive the response they are entitled to as Members of the United Nations. This trend must be urgently reversed; all operations must be put on an equal financial footing by means of assessed contributions. In addition, as I noted here last year, the largest contributor's arrears to the peacekeeping and regular budgets continue to cast a long shadow over the Organization. Outstanding dues and very slow payments to troop contributors affect us all, and can severely constrain the ability of countries to contribute to pressing peacekeeping needs. We call again on those Member States who are in dereliction of their obligations to make payment on time, in full and, of course, without conditions. Reform of the Security Council remains one of the most important items on our agenda. Further useful progress has been made this year. While the issue of enlargement continues to be complex, we believe there has existed for some time wide agreement on the equally important areas of reforming the Council's working methods and the curtailing of the veto. The linkage between the veto and enlargement was also explicitly recognized in this year's report to the General Assembly of the Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council and Other Matters Related to the Security Council. 12 As for the task of providing more equitable representation, I am not convinced that we will be able to achieve this while the regional groups in the United Nations continue to reflect the political geography of the 1960s. Quite different and far more sensible arrangements have been adopted in other multilateral forums, as, for example, in the context of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT). The present system here in New York locks in very great disparities in representation. Small countries that can make an excellent contribution are often severely disadvantaged, especially where a political bloc inside a regional group may coordinate closely on electoral matters. I would, therefore, wish to add my voice to those of the Prime Ministers of Fiji and Samoa and the Foreign Ministers of Papua New Guinea and Australia, who spoke earlier in this debate on the need for reconfiguration. Reconfiguration of the regional groups may well hold one of the keys to an overall package on Security Council reform. New Zealand still looks forward to the day when we can join a regional group here in New York which includes our Asia-Pacific neighbours. In the meantime, we will continue to build linkages in our region and developing the many areas of our common understanding. One of the great strengths of the General Assembly is the equal status ascribed to each Member. All Members, large or small, rich or poor, have a right to be heard here. Each has a single vote. While we must all from time to time temper our own national ambitions in the interests of reaching a common understanding, we respect the point of view of each individual member. The special session on small island developing States over the last few days was a very good opportunity to do just that. New Zealand is firmly committed to assisting the small island developing States SIDS in the spirit of common purpose and partnership envisaged at Barbados five years ago. We are very pleased that all participants in the special session have reaffirmed their commitment to implement fully the Barbados Programme of Action. In April New Zealand, represented by my colleague, the Honourable Simon Upton, had the privilege of chairing the seventh session of the Commission on Sustainable Development. We were pleased to be able to help reinvigorate debate and build consensus around the need for a more coordinated approach to stewardship of the world's oceans and the need to recognise, in an ongoing way, the special characteristics and needs of small island developing States. The Commission faces the great challenge of pursuing the implementation of Agenda 21. Two other great challenges we as a world face on the environmental front are the threat of global climate change, caused at least in part by human-induced emissions of greenhouse gases, and the need to maintain an approach to international trade and environmental issues which is based on sound scientific analysis and agreed rules and procedures. It is vitally important that we should continue to act in concert to face these international challenges. International cooperation in addressing economic, social and humanitarian problems is, and always will be, one of the cornerstones of the United Nations Charter. The substantial decline in official development assistance flows over the last decade is of great concern to many Member States. In this connection, I am concerned to note that the core resources of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) have been greatly reduced over the past five years, to the point where its universality is seriously threatened. I applaud the efforts the new administrator is making to turn this situation around and to put UNDP on a more secure footing, with more clearly defined priorities. Private capital flows to developing countries have shown major increases. There is a tendency, however, for such investment to be heavily concentrated on a few countries where investment prospects seem brightest. Many developing countries remain vulnerable and can be all too easily marginalized. Official development assistance continues to be an essential tool to help build the capacity of countries in sectors such as education so that they can benefit from the unstoppable phenomenon of globalization. It is certainly a matter of particular pride for me, as New Zealand's Foreign Minister, to have overseen increases in New Zealand's official development assistance funding effort — up by some 40 per cent since the time of the Rio Summit in 1992. I welcome, also, the positive steps that are being taken on the financing for development and debt-relief initiatives. It is vital that we continue the dialogue among Member States and with the international financial institutions to ensure a sounder basis for meeting the challenges of international development. Last year I referred to the important role the United Nations has to play in shaping the moves towards 13 globalization and the opening up of opportunities for world trade. Later this year, in Seattle, we expect to launch a new round of multilateral trade negotiations. This will clearly provide a forum in which to advance trade liberalization and the rules-based trading system. The role of these negotiations in promoting the development prospects of all countries and in fostering the integration of least developed countries into the global system will be a particular focus. Deliberations in this Organization at many levels will help to advance our people's understanding of the value and purpose of the global trade agenda and their ability to benefit from it. However, I would emphasise the importance of major trading partners in continuing to play a leadership role. The adoption of trade restrictions and distortions by wealthy economies does much to erode their moral authority in the broader debate. New Zealand continues to attach the utmost importance to seeing all countries work together to bring about a world free of nuclear weapons. For this reason we were a cosponsor last year of the so-called New Agenda resolution, which called for faster progress towards the elimination of nuclear weapons. The cosponsors will be presenting this moderate resolution again this year, and we urge all countries to look carefully at it. The Conference on Facilitating the Entry into Force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty will meet in Vienna in a week's time. I would urge all those countries which have not ratified the Treaty to do so, so that it can enter into force without further delay. Strengthening the United Nations remains an important goal for New Zealand. I take this opportunity to commend the forward-looking management reforms introduced by the Secretary-General. They have greatly improved policy coordination among senior management and have produced positive, tangible effects throughout the Secretariat. Improving the way the Organization plans its programmes and expenditures is a critical next step, where work is already under way. There must be a greater focus on results when budgets are prepared in order to promote the best use of the resources of the Organization, and in turn the best return for Member States. This year marks the fiftieth anniversary of the Geneva Conventions, and last year we commemorated the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Events over the past 12 months have shown that challenges to the values and principles embodied in the Universal Declaration remain as daunting as ever. In this interdependent world in which we live, New Zealand continues to see the United Nations as central to international efforts to work together to protect and promote, for all our people, those fundamental human rights and freedoms to which we are committed under the Universal Declaration. Next year the United Nations will host the millennium summit. This symbolic event will provide an excellent opportunity for Member States to reaffirm their commitment to the ideals of this great Organization. Recognizing the frailties of our collective performance to date, and the critical importance of finding workable solutions for the future, I call on all Member States to take the opportunities offered by the millennium summit to enter into open and constructive dialogue and step into the next millennium with an unequivocal recommitment to the visionary principles enshrined in the Charter. It is nine years since I first addressed this body in 1991 as the Foreign Minister of New Zealand. For the United Nations, and particularly the Security Council, it has been a tumultuous period. After the cold war the number of problems multiplied; the world's expectations of what the United Nations could deliver were raised above the possible; and the solutions demanded required determination, resolve, tact, understanding and imagination. The demands on the United Nations will not lessen, but each year must see a better performance than in the past. However, as this may well be the last statement I make to this body, I want to thank all United Nations officials and peacekeepers everywhere: those I have met here in New York; in Cambodia and in Somalia; in Mozambique; in Bosnia, Croatia and Albania; in Papua New Guinea and, of course, now in East Timor. I thank them for their continuing, often unsung and heroic efforts. They are much appreciated.  I wish to extend to you, Sir, my sincere congratulations on your well-deserved election to the presidency of the General Assembly and to assure you of the full support and cooperation of the delegation of the Islamic Republic of Iran in the discharge of your responsibilities. I should also like to thank your predecessor for his tireless efforts during his tenure. May I also express the profound gratitude of my Government to our Secretary-General, who, with unsurpassed wisdom and sagacity, has played an immense role in advancing the objectives of the United Nations. The twentieth century we are leaving behind has been one of invaluable experiences, both positive and negative. On the positive side, the rejection of force as an instrument of policy has emerged as a fundamental principle of international behaviour; the promotion and protection of human rights as universal concepts have attained priority on the global agenda; astonishing progress in science and technology has brought unprecedented welfare to humanity; knowledge has become the common heritage of humanity; previously colonized countries have been empowered to determine their own destiny; dictatorship and despotism have been seriously challenged by the universal demand for participation; and the technological revolution in the field 10 of communications has fundamentally changed human interaction. Alongside these positive developments, the twentieth century has also witnessed various negative phenomena and trends. The totalitarian mentality continues to prevail at the domestic and international levels; poverty persists in its material, spiritual and cultural manifestations; the gap between rich and poor has widened; the world has never freed itself from conflict and bloodshed; the destructive territorial wars of the past have turned into tragic ethnic, racial and sectarian rivalries; extremism survives in its various forms and manifestations, causing irreparable damage; and terrorism continues to challenge humanity with its ruthless recurrence in various parts of the world. A hallmark of the twentieth century has been the worldwide emergence of demands for individual and collective participation, defying totalitarianism and authoritarian rule everywhere. Decision-making is no longer an autocratic or even elitist enterprise. It is a participatory process demanding collective contribution. Totalitarian tendencies and ideologies in various countries and at the international level are finally learning that their time is long passed. The global surge of democracy and popular participation as the sole guarantors of stability and the litmus tests of good-governance is indeed a development of historic proportions. Self-determination, collective participation and consent of the governed represent valuable and time-tested rational alternatives. In this century, Iran has undergone fundamental changes in the pursuit of independence, liberty, justice, participation and good governance. Since time immemorial and throughout its tumultuous history, Iran has been the locus of innovation. It has proudly preserved its genuine national and religious heritage, and yet, in keeping with the best traditions of that very culture, it has never failed to embrace modernity, new ideas and new ways. In today's Islamic Republic, the democratization process is marching forward on the solid foundation of democratic Islamic principles. The Government is resolutely determined vigorously to pursue the implementation and consolidation of its reform programmes. The cornerstones of these reform policies are the promotion and protection of constitutional liberties; upholding the rule of law; strengthening democratic norms and institutions; the institutionalization of the culture of participation; the enhancement of the role of people in government; the full accountability of public officials; increasing transparency; strengthening the institutions of civil society; the promotion of tolerance, a pluralistic society of multiple voices and domestic trends, coupled with confidence- building and the breaking of old barriers in foreign relations. Undoubtedly, open, dynamic and democratic societies are by definition susceptible to dissension and even rivalries. This has historically accompanied the process of reform, constituting an inescapable ingredient of this path. The sound and successful approach of President Khatami's Administration in dealing with these social and political challenges, which has enjoyed the full support of the leadership, has been to promote and protect fundamental democratic values and ensure the rule of law and due process, as well as security and stability, which together form the foundations of a flourishing and open society. Collective participation extends beyond local and domestic decision-making, and is becoming increasingly a global requirement for an effective presence in international decision-making. The full participation of all States is a necessary but not sufficient response to this need. It requires the effective contribution of civil society organizations in all aspects of the global decision-making process. During this century, exclusion often surfaced as a paradigm of global interaction, in which the world is viewed in terms of modes of loyalty, countries are viewed as belonging to coalitions or not and are divided, rewarded and blamed accordingly. Today, the utility of this paradigm is being seriously questioned, as is the validity of some of our basic assumptions. The cold war was the last episode of exclusion. It has undoubtedly left its negative imprint on international affairs, but more regrettably it has permanently scarred the mentality of global actors and international relations theory. One of the most horrifying manifestations of exclusion has been the global arms race. It literally aims at marginalizing others through the accumulation of conventional and mass-destruction agents of death, the formation of rival military blocs and the unbridled race to expand spheres of influence and domination. The persistence of this paradigm is largely responsible for the most serious threat to the Middle East region. Exploiting this mode of global interaction, Israel, with impunity, has trampled the most fundamental rights of the Palestinian people, including their right to self- determination, has driven millions of people into diaspora, has illegally occupied territories of others in the Syrian Golan and southern Lebanon and has even gone as far as to commit extortion for partial fulfilment of its obligations. This has impeded the realization of the legitimate right of the Palestinian people, and indeed the entire Islamic world, to establish an independent Palestinian State in the occupied territories, with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital. The same regime has posed a grave threat to regional and global peace and security through the acquisition of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction and the rejection of universal non-proliferation regimes. The global culture of violence and exclusion, which partially emanated from justification of violence as an acceptable means to achieve coalition objectives, has unwittingly nurtured global menaces ranging from ethnic suppression to terrorism. Two decades of fratricide and devastation in Afghanistan has been the fruit of an illusion of total domination of one group or ethnicity at the expense of the exclusion of others. This has stalled the constructive and tireless efforts of the Secretary-General and his Special Envoy, Ambassador Brahimi, to bring about a peaceful solution through the establishment of a broad-based Government. Thus, today peace and stability in Afghanistan and respect for the most fundamental rights of Afghan women, men and children in Taliban-controlled areas have all but become distant dreams, turning Afghanistan, with its proud and rich heritage, into a bastion of narcotics, terrorism and regional instability. Allow me to refer to terrorism, which has become a serious menace and a global challenge. It, of course, victimizes innocent human beings. But its real targets are the rule of law, popular participation and institutions of civil society. In fact, to have fertile ground, terrorists need and seek to cultivate and entrench a culture of violence. It is for this very reason that, as the Iranian people and Government have forged a national consensus to institutionalize the rule of law and participation, known terrorist groups have significantly intensified their campaign of terror against them. It is even more regrettable that they still find foreign benefactors and sanctuaries. The people and the Government of Iran have no doubt that the aim of this treacherous terrorist campaign is to undermine the national determination to reject violence in all its forms, and we are all determined to prove the terrorists wrong. Terrorism can and will be contained and eradicated if we all join hands with firm and resolute determination. But we need to recognize that the application of double standards seriously undermines such a global campaign. Acquiescence to terrorists of whatever stripe impedes the emergence of a unified, transparent and non- discriminatory universal machinery to combat and root out all forms of terrorism. Iran, while condemning terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, is fully prepared to engage actively in such global cooperation. It is thus necessary to work collectively today to lay the foundations of a new paradigm of inclusion and dialogue on participation, tolerance, understanding and collective cooperation. The initiative of a dialogue among civilizations, presented last year by President Khatami, is a proposal to move away from a world driven by exclusion and monologue and to begin the new millennium with a gentler, more civilized approach for a better tomorrow. The overwhelming reception by the international community and the designation of the year 2001 as the United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations indicate a common longing of humanity for a different approach to interactions in the next century. In our view, the designation of the Year of Dialogue among Civilizations is not a mere recognition of the self- evident necessity for dialogue at the global level. It is in fact a declaration of readiness to try a new model of interaction. The fundamental assumption of this proposal is that the prosperity, welfare, development and security of one group, in spite of, or at the expense of, the poverty, hunger, underdevelopment and insecurity of others are simply deceptive and short-lived, and thus they need to be abandoned. In certain fields, this underlying principle has been universally accepted, whereas in many other fields, we have a long and arduous way to go. Today, no one has the illusion that the environment could be defined in terms of political or geographic boundaries. Neither can the eradication of narcotics be a purely national enterprise. We in Iran are particularly cognizant of that fact, as we have had to endure a heavy human, social and financial toll in our campaign against international narcotics traffickers. In the field of human rights, it appears that the international community is gradually embracing a more cooperative approach based on constructive engagement and understanding. Pluralism, acceptance of diversity and dialogue among cultures and civilizations in this pivotal area of international affairs will undoubtedly enhance the 12 universality of human rights instruments, making them more readily acceptable and globally implementable. Dialogue is the product of concurrent acceptance of commonality and diversity. From this perspective, international endorsement of dialogue illustrates recognition of the diversity of cultures and civilizations and the reaffirmation of the cultural rights of all peoples and nations, so that all human beings can engage members of other civilizations from the standpoint of their own culture, civilization and historical background, and not by simply echoing the mentality of a totally alien culture. Only such interaction can be mutually enriching and indeed meaningful. The Islamic Republic of Iran firmly believes that the recognition and reaffirmation of cultural rights of nations is a first step for the promotion of sustained dialogue. In the field of peace and security, we need to truly accept the reality that security is an indivisible need and demand of the entire human race. Thus we need to set aside the residuals of the bipolar system and replace bloc security umbrellas with a new and innovative concept of global security networking, an inclusive and participatory system which uses the existing mechanisms in a complementary rather than competing scheme. Attainment of this objective can be immensely helped and expedited by empowering civil society organizations to participate actively in global disarmament and security forums and debates. This valuable role has hitherto been mostly limited to the social and human rights fields, and the security and disarmament arena has been more or less deprived of its contribution and insight. This deficiency needs to be rectified. Meanwhile, short- and medium-term measures include confidence-building at the regional and global levels, transparency in the field of armaments, a steady reduction of military expenditures, the elimination of weapons of mass destruction and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons in the interim. The Islamic Republic of Iran has itself adopted these measures, and has based its foreign policy on confidence-building and the removal of old barriers, with particular emphasis on its immediate neighbourhood. As the Chairman of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, we have also made significant progress in developing mechanisms and instruments to enhance confidence among Member States and to institutionalize dialogue and coordination with other bodies, such as the European Union. The United Nations has an indispensable pivotal role in shaping the new world of the next millennium. The preservation and extension of its achievements, coupled with revitalization of the moral authority and political relevance of the United Nations in the coming millennium, require restoration of the fundamental purposes and principles of the United Nations, as well as a rational, transparent and participatory process of reassessment of the existing institutions. Enhancement of the relevance of the United Nations requires, first and foremost, strengthening the role and increasing the efficiency of the General Assembly, by focusing its deliberations on contemporary challenges and problems facing our world today, engaging it in timely and effective decision-making to address global economic and political issues, and enabling it to seriously examine and effectively react to the reports of other organs of the United Nations, particularly the Security Council, as mandated by the Charter. In this context, we believe that the General Assembly, as the sole democratic, universal and transparent organ of the United Nations, is the proper forum to carry out an in-depth analysis of the implications of the emerging debate on collective action to address humanitarian catastrophes. The imperative of maintaining the integrity of the Charter system is the common point of departure in this exercise. I firmly believe that the success of next year's Millennium Summit rests on an innovative approach to prepare the United Nations system to march — and indeed to lead the world community — towards a new paradigm of international affairs. Outdated approaches and old remedies have failed to rectify the main problems afflicting humanity, even at times exacerbating and aggravating them. In our collective quest for fundamental solutions, we all need to discard old perceptions, assumptions and conceptual frameworks. This is the very premise, as well as the primary goal, of dialogue between civilizations. Vital change in human societies requires brave and bold leadership by statesmen and the elite to question old, ineffective ways and open the arena for the participation of thinkers, intellectuals and civil society organizations in the search for a kinder and gentler tomorrow. We hope that our Assembly will have such bravery and foresight. Sharing: this will be the theme of my statement from this rostrum, because at the end of this millennium, when globalization rhymes with poverty, insecurity, social ills and natural disasters, the culture of sharing should, more than ever, guide our actions. I want to share, first of all, Mr. President, our satisfaction at seeing you conduct the proceedings of this fifty-fourth session. Along with everyone else, and on behalf of the delegation of Madagascar, I would like to share my profound conviction that your reputation on the international scene is an asset that will guide our discussions towards encouraging results. A talented diplomat and a worthy representative of a people that has become a symbol of heroism and patriotism, you enjoy our confidence, our support and our admiration. We would also like to pay tribute to your predecessor, Minister Didier Opertti of Uruguay, for having held and passed on the torch that he carried with all the competence and determination one would expect of him. Furthermore, to the Secretary-General we offer thanks and recognition for his devotion and wise dynamism. He has known how to be the spokesman for aspirations of harmony, justice and progress. Under his enlightened guidance and leadership, our Organization is today well prepared to order the twenty-first century. I wish to join my voice to those of previous speakers in greeting and welcoming the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga, which have just enlarged our United Nations community. Let them share with us the noble ideals that brought us together and keep us together: the equality of peoples under the law, respect for the sovereignty of every State, democracy and peace. Sharing with everyone, our pride in belonging to the great family of the United Nations, our forum for meeting, discussion, decision-making and solidarity; sharing the values that provide the foundations for our international community; and sharing in the vital programmes of cooperation carried out synergistically among all the different actors and constituents of our structure and system — these, specifically, are the sources of our satisfaction. Today, less than 100 days from the new century and the new millennium, we are keenly aware of the timeliness of our discussions. Our fifty-fourth session is of particular significance in that it offers all of us the opportunity not only to undertake a retrospective examination of the major events of the century, but also to seek ways and means to inject renewed dynamism into future international relations. The commitments we made at the fifty-third session of the General Assembly must be implemented as rapidly as possible. We can achieve this through concerted efforts and our shared determination to succeed. However, to do this, we must proceed urgently to apply the necessary measures for the restructuring of our Organization. 5 We reiterate our support for the position of the Organization of African Unity regarding the need to expand the Security Council. The restructuring of that organ must be based on the principles of democracy, transparency and equitable geographic distribution. On the question of the veto, in our view there is no room for equivocation: either it must be extended to all permanent members or it must be abolished. Our presence and our interactive participation in the concert of nations prompts us to share our thinking on certain subjects that constitute challenges of the highest priority at the end of the century, particularly the questions of armed conflict, the maintenance of peace, disarmament, international terrorism, democracy and human rights, and human and socio-economic development. While accelerating the integration of our global society, the end of the era of ideological confrontation has been conducive to the proliferation of conflicts of a political, socio-economic, ethnic, cultural or religious nature. Is there any need to stress that in all these conflict situations the most vulnerable sectors of society — especially children, women and the elderly — are the first victims. Madagascar therefore shares the general satisfaction with the adoption by the Security Council of resolutions 1261 (1999) and 1265 (1999), on the protection of civilians in armed conflict. There are some signs of satisfaction and hope: the signing last 4 September of the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum; the signing in Lomé on 7 July 1999 of a Peace Agreement for the conflict in Sierra Leone; and the 10 July 1999 signing of the Ceasefire Agreement between the principal parties to the conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Nonetheless, we note that, unfortunately, many hotbeds of tension remain or are being created throughout the world. The tragic situations in Angola, Somalia, Afghanistan and Kosovo are clear examples of this. As regards East Timor, Madagascar pays tribute to the courageous efforts of the United Nations Mission in East Timor during the electoral process. We particularly welcome the recent adoption of Security Council resolution 1264 (1999), on decisive measures to put an end to the crisis and to ensure strict respect for human rights. As regards Western Sahara, Madagascar endorses the initiative of the United Nations to organize a free, honest and impartial referendum, as well as the extension of the mandate of the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara until 14 December 1999. We in Madagascar have lived in peace, but we have always been aware of the need to preserve the Indian Ocean as a zone of peace, and thus we are concerned about the situation in the Comoros, our close neighbour. We therefore welcome the opportunity to have hosted, in April this year at Antananarivo, the Comorian inter-island conference, under the aegis of the Organization of African Unity (OAU). We urge the international community to maintain the efforts to implement the Antananarivo accord so as to bring about a democratic and unified Comorian state. Last year marked the fiftieth anniversary of United Nations peacekeeping operations. We salute the initiatives for cooperation between the United Nations and the OAU and between the European Union, the OAU and subregional organizations such as the Southern African Development Community and the Economic Community of West African States. Nevertheless, in our view these actions should be in keeping with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, such as respect for the sovereignty of States, respect for territorial integrity and non-intervention in internal affairs. While we recognize the usefulness of peacekeeping operations, Madagascar considers that disarmament is inseparable from any effort to consolidate peace. Indeed, the increasing deadliness of conflicts is connected with the excessive accumulation of light weapons, of which there are now an estimated 500 million. In our view the problem must be resolved upstream, because practically all the hotbeds of tension are maintained by the production and sale of such weapons and illicit trafficking in them. As a party to the international conventions on the non-proliferation of weapons and illicit trafficking in them, Madagascar supports the idea of an international conference on the illicit arms trade, in all its aspects. As we turn the page on a millennium tarnished by wars and conflicts, general disarmament must be a common and shared objective. In this regard, on 25 August of this year Madagascar associated itself with the ratification of the Ottawa Convention on anti-personnel landmines. Convinced that there can be no security in a world teeming with nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, Madagascar welcomes the holding next year of the Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. 6 Another concern of our times is the struggle against international terrorism, a struggle in which we should be steadfastly united. This is why we wish to we wish to support the development of a draft international convention to block the financing of terrorism. Our active participation at the last OAU summit, held in Algiers, in the adoption of a convention for preventing and fighting terrorism, demonstrates our determination to eradicate this scourge. Furthermore, this very day we have signed the International Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings. At a time when all the inhabitants of the planet share the desire to live free from the horrors of violence, discrimination and exclusion, respect for democratic principles is no longer just a precept; it has become an absolute necessity. We therefore exhort the international community to condemn firmly any taking of power by non- democratic means. As the principal guarantor of universal values, the United Nations is called upon to take the lead in this area. At the threshold of the twenty-first century, working together to promote human development and human rights is an obligation. This year, 1999 — the International Year of Older Persons — is crucial for the implementation of the International Plan of Action on Ageing, adopted at Vienna in 1982. Madagascar therefore welcomes the initiative to convene in 2002 a special session of the General Assembly devoted to the updating of this Plan of Action. The right to development is inseparable from the effective exercise of human rights. It must enjoy international support and solidarity so that development is extended to all human beings, not just to a privileged minority. For its part, Madagascar has spared no effort to strengthen its institutional capacities. A National Human Rights Commission and an observer office for human rights have been established. We have also signed agreements with the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights to assist in promoting human rights. Aware of the revival of transnational traffic in women and children as well as of modern forms of slavery, Madagascar adopted on 25 January 1999 a law designed to combat paedophilia. Furthermore, we welcome the conventions produced under the aegis of the International Labour Organization on the employment of children and young people. Personally, I am happy to have signed the letter addressed to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, from all the female Ministers for Foreign Affairs, a letter that reiterates our unwavering support for the fight against trafficking in human beings, particularly women and children. From one year to the next we are beset by the same concerns. We do not wish to call it routine, but our agenda nevertheless reveals that we must experience the same concerns time and again. The century is drawing to an end without the resolution of two major problems: poverty and the increase in social inequality. One billion people live in extreme poverty, while another billion are enjoying a life of increasing luxury. Furthermore, a recent study has shown that at the beginning of the next century we can expect the ratio of income differential between the rich and the poor countries to be on the order of 150 to one. Our claims are therefore as legitimate as ever, while our efforts at development remain hampered by the continuing and ever-growing deterioration of the terms of trade, by our strict dependence on external capital, and by the disproportionate concentration of direct foreign investment in economic sectors to which access is restricted. Without wishing to belittle the advantages of the inescapable phenomenon of globalization, our fears remain profound in the face of the emergence of a unipolar order, which in certain cases promotes marginalization, precariousness and insecurity; reduces our Governments’ room to manoeuvre or capacity to act; and sometimes even affects our countries’ exercise of their own sovereignty. We therefore say “no” to selective globalization when it comes to liberalization, inasmuch as we are being called on to liberalize our trade, investments and financial flows at an accelerated pace, while this impulse to liberalize has not been nearly so strong in the case of products of interest to our countries or in the promotion of access to know-how and technologies. The lack of consistency within the new world system also applies to the links between our economic adjustment programmes and the various social and environmental objectives: the struggle against poverty, the establishment of basic social infrastructures, the security safety net and the protection and development of our environmental resources. While in no way calling into question the commitments undertaken to its development partners, Madagascar expresses its solidarity with all the 7 developing countries in calling for improved integration within the world economic system, allowing the promotion of regular and socially harmonious growth with a human and ecological face. The challenges are numerous and varied. The elimination of poverty remains our priority. We continue to believe that this problem will be resolved only if the pace of economic growth is accelerated and maintained. The international anti-poverty strategy must include concrete measures to strengthen national efforts in such areas as job creation, improved functioning of markets and social and political institutions, and the active participation of vulnerable groups in development. The problem of external debt is a political question of the highest importance in international economic relations and remains a genuine obstacle to the growth of most developing countries. Arrangements and accords to date have provided only limited solutions because of conditions of eligibility, new conditionalities, selectivity in loan- making, the excessive length of negotiations and constraints connected to mandatory circulation. We welcome the debt-reduction plan approved recently at the G-8 Summit in Cologne, but the slow pace at which the reduction would seem to yield benefits tends to erode our hopes. This plan should be interpreted flexibly by the international financial institutions so that it may benefit all debtors without exception. The African debt warrants particular attention because of these countries’ very limited capacity for repayment. Indicators show that the African can never be repaid. We therefore call simply for its total cancellation. We are deeply concerned by the reduction of official development assistance, which today represents less than one third of the international target agreed more than 20 years ago. It is urgent that this trend be reversed. Given the importance of this question, Madagascar is following with particular interest the preparatory work for the international meeting on all aspects of development financing. The discussion on reforming the international financial architecture is of the greatest interest to us, the objective being to free additional and foreseeable resources for development and to strengthen the systems that control, monitor and regulate financial flows. With regard to international trade, we support the message of the Group of 77 addressed to the forthcoming meeting of the World Trade Organization in Seattle, as well as the Marrakesh Declaration with regard to the preparation of the tenth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD X), scheduled for Bangkok early next year. The question of commodities remains a subject of major concern to our countries. We therefore support the efforts of the relevant international institutions, UNCTAD in particular, to find more effective machinery that would allow us to increase our export earnings. Recognized as a global nature sanctuary because of the wealth of its biodiversity, Madagascar remains deeply concerned by environmental problems. We follow with interest all United Nations activities for sustainable development and renew our appeal for increased support from our partners in the implementation of our national environmental programme, currently in phase 2. To meet these challenges, we have two options. First, we are convinced that the reform targets we are contemplating can be achieved only within the framework of revitalized international economic cooperation. This would require a resumption of the North-South dialogue. In this context, major international economic meetings should be guided by a spirit of solidarity and a sense of share responsibility between the various development partners. We must therefore advocate a global and integrated approach to replace sectoral schemes, which are necessarily inadequate. The second option, which we feel to be a prerequisite, requires the strengthening of South-South cooperation. In advance even of the process of integration within the inevitable system of globalization, it is natural — even imperative — for the southern countries to organize themselves. Our progress in this area, being dispersed and isolated, has proved slow. Of course, we recognize that priorities, methods and schedules differ. We must concede, however, that the implementation stage of such cooperation now calls for the much greater unity and genuine political involvement of member countries. In this manner, we envisage a reorganization of the South at all levels — subregional, regional, continental and global — grouping together all developing countries. Madagascar is firmly committed to this approach. That is why, at the subregional and regional levels, we are participating within the Indian Ocean Commission in the implementation of a regional sustainable development policy, to be endorsed by the forthcoming summit of heads of State and Government on 3 December. As a full member of the Common Market for Eastern and Southern 8 Africa, Madagascar was among the first to decide to apply, on a reciprocal basis, a tariff reduction of 80 per cent for the products of member States. This tariff preference is a prelude to a free-trade zone. At the continental level, we welcome the appeal launched at the recent fourth Extraordinary Summit of the Organization of African Unity at Sirte for greater economic integration in Africa. Indeed, participants in this conference clearly affirmed that greater unity is one way to resist the threat of globalization looming over the continent. Together with all African countries, Madagascar urges the international community to lend its material and financial support and to share with our continent its own experiences in its achievement of unity. According to United Nations resolutions, Africa in the 1990s has been a priority for action against poverty and insecurity. In this regard, I welcome the financial commitment of $150 million, announced three days ago on 28 September by Mr. James Wolfensohn, President of the West Bank, to its Partnership for African Capacity. The contribution of every Member State to forging a new Africa is an obligation. With this in mind, over the past three years Madagascar has built a structure that will promote democracy, human rights and multifaceted cooperation. An entire field of activity has opened up today, making our big island a major actor in regional, continental and international life. The principle of sharing has been implicit in the activities of our Organization since its Charter was written. Whatever reforms it has undergone and will undergo, we agree that it is important to preserve among us this noble principle, a rallying cry for our actions. There is also sharing to be done to reduce economic discrepancies which have been growing over the last two decades; sharing to remedy the asymmetry of trade, if not actually to redefine such trade, and to ensure that such progress is immanent; and sharing to put an end to the role of war so as to finally initiate the role of peace. We remain convinced that only the United Nations will be a true instigator of the culture of peace, prosperity and humanism in this world which must be interdependent. We share the wish for success in the forthcoming great meetings in the year 2000; at Bangkok for the tenth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, at Havana for the South Summit, and here in this very Hall for the Millennium Summit. There is no doubt that the twentieth century, which is now coming to a close, will leave a deep imprint on the history of the world. This has been an epoch of global transformation and social change, scientific discoveries and achievements. The realization of the idea of a universal world Organization, which has become the foundation uniting the entire international community, has indeed been one of the positive things about this century. However, the twentieth century has witnessed the most severe upheavals. Millions of people have perished in the flames of world wars, revolutions and civil and ethnic conflicts. On a few occasions, humanity teetered on the brink of self-destruction, and the burden of outstanding problems it has left for the new era is a heavy one. We cannot resolve all these problems before the advent of the third millennium, but we are indeed duty bound to lay down the foundations for resolving them in the long-term and to start moving in that direction. The most important thing we should do is to define the parameters of the world in which we are going to live. This lies at the core of the initiative put forward by the President of the Russian Federation, President Yeltsin, to develop a world concept for the twenty-first century. As a world Power and permanent member of the Security Council, Russia is fully conscious of its special role in and responsibility for world developments and stands for the establishment of a multipolar world built on a solid foundation of international law. Our country is pursuing in practice a multifaceted foreign policy with a view to establishing equitable and mutually beneficial bilateral and multilateral relations with all the countries of the world and to strengthening international security and stability. The world concept for the twenty-first century involves establishing a new culture which would aim to form a common system of values and models of behaviour. A world without wars and conflict, a world of democracy and prosperity must be the highest priority for all peoples and States. Every nation is entitled to its rightful place among other nations and to security on an equal footing in all its aspects, including in the political, military, economic and social areas. How and through what mechanisms can this be achieved? Is there a body which can reflect the interests of all States in a balanced manner? The answer is obvious: it is the United Nations. From the outset, the United Nations Charter put the Organization at the service of all humankind. There is simply no other universal mechanism to regulate international relations. We are fully aware of the danger posed by the threats and challenges facing our world today: the various manifestations of militant nationalism, separatism, terrorism and extremism, which know no borders. This is a common challenge which is claiming countless victims and wreaking destruction in various parts of the globe. Aggressive separatism, which has become a growth medium for various extremist forces, has become one of the main sources of domestic conflict and regional instability. No one is immune to it. The international community and, above all, the United Nations, must decisively clamp down on any manifestations of separatism and strictly and consistently defend the principles of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States and the inviolability of their borders. Outside encouragement and support for separatist forces must be totally eradicated. Recently, separatism has been increasingly merging with the monster of terrorism. We could even now, during this session, take a number of specific steps to stimulate practical international cooperation in combating terrorism. We must finalize the draft international convention on the suppression of acts of nuclear terrorism. I therefore suggest that we should develop and adopt a declaration of principles for cooperation between States on combating terrorism more vigorously. It is the States’ bounden duty to protect their citizens against terrorist attacks and to prevent activities from taking place in their territory that are aimed at organizing such acts against the citizens of other countries. Russia therefore supports the initiative to convene, under United Nations auspices, a conference or a special session of the General Assembly next year on 13 combating terrorism. Such an event would give a powerful political impetus to the struggle against terrorism at a global level. The capabilities of the United Nations should also be used more efficiently in the fight against drug-related threats and organized crime. Only through joint efforts that are also in strict compliance with the rules of international law can we defeat this evil. The founding fathers of the United Nations made provision for a law-based response to violations of peace and security. The international community can take also coercive measures, but this should be done in accordance with the Charter and following a decision by the Security Council. Unlawful means can only undermine rightful ends. It is from this very perspective that we assess such doctrines as that of humanitarian intervention. In general, we should take an extremely careful approach to coercive measures; what is more, we must not allow them to turn into a repressive mechanism for influencing States and peoples that are not to the liking of some. Of course, evolution of the international situation means that it is appropriate for existing rules of international law to be developed and adapted to prevailing conditions, but this should be done through collective discussion and the adoption of appropriate decisions, not as a fait accompli and not working from scratch: it should be based on valid rules of international law. This is precisely what Russia had in mind with its initiative to consider at the Millennium Summit legal aspects of the use of force in international relations in the era of globalization. We invite all countries to a broad and open dialogue on this issue. Much has been said in recent years about the reform of the United Nations, which is only natural. Life is an evolving process and, as times change, any system will need to be updated. What objectives future reform should pursue is another matter. In our view, reform means, first and foremost, the adoption of a package of measures to enhance the role of the United Nations in the world arena. The Organization should be ready to respond in a timely and appropriate way to the challenges that globalization presents to mankind. We must give serious thought to how to enhance the efficiency of the Security Council and how to make that principal organ of the United Nations more representative through the inclusion of influential new members, including — and this is absolutely indispensable — developing countries. This would help maintain the overall balance in the system of international relations, especially when the use of force, bypassing the Security Council, continues. It is also beyond doubt that preservation of the right of veto of permanent members is indispensable for meaningful and efficient work in the Council. Generally speaking, the entire system of international organizations needs sensible and responsible reform. At the same time, the United Nations must remain a focal point of the international community’s efforts to settle the most burning problems of the day. The issue of strengthening the authority of the United Nations after it has been seriously and painfully tested by the Balkan and Iraq crises is at the very top of the agenda at the current session of the General Assembly. First of all, we must continue strenuous efforts to restore the role of the Security Council in world affairs. We have managed through joint efforts to bring the settlement of the Kosovo problem back within the legal and political framework of the United Nations. Now we need jointly to strive for strict and consistent implementation of Security Council resolution 1244 (1999). We cannot afford to let the re-emerging political process be undermined again, since that could become a tragedy for all of Europe and could once again bring the world to the brink of catastrophe. Equally urgent is the issue of post-conflict rehabilitation in the Balkans. The United Nations has an important role to play in meeting these challenges as well. We all should draw serious lessons from recent crises. Non-legitimate methods of exerting power only exacerbate problems and result in even greater deadlock. Developments in the Middle East, where the peace process has of late acquired a new positive impetus, clearly exemplify the optimal alternative, that of negotiated settlement. Also on the agenda is the issue of improving sanctions regimes, to which the international community has frequently resorted over the past decade. Sanctions are an extreme measure. They must be applied only when other means of political influence have been exhausted and when the Security Council has established the existence of a threat to peace. The Council, for its part, should be guided by clear criteria for the imposition and the lifting of sanctions, and should not permit any free interpretation of the decisions it has adopted, much less permit the use of its decisions by anyone for selfish political or economic ends. It is necessary to take very serious account of the humanitarian implications of sanctions both for the population of the States subject to 14 such sanctions and for third countries. The punishment of entire nations, especially for an indefinite time and indiscriminately, is inadmissible. Peacemaking is one of the key areas of United Nations activities. During the past 50 years the Organization has acquired vast practical experience in this field. Having successfully survived intense disputes and ideological battles, peacemaking has proved its vital power and importance for securing world and regional stability. The evolution of the theory and practice of present-day peacemaking confirms that there is no alternative to maintaining the central role of the United Nations in this sphere. The encouragement of peacemaking and the strengthening of its legal basis in strict conformity with the fundamental principles of the Charter should become an important component of the concept of the world in the twenty-first century. Building up and modernizing the anti- crisis capability of the United Nations is a key prerequisite for tackling these tasks successfully. The top priority here is to begin truly using the system of stand-by agreements with the United Nations. Taking into account the limited resources of the world Organization, and given the high demand for peacekeeping operations, cooperation and division of labour between the United Nations and regional structures has become a priority. It is of fundamental importance that such cooperation should be in strict accordance with Chapter VIII of the Charter and should be fully consistent with the prerogatives of the Security Council. For Russia, the question of peacemaking cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations is far from theoretical. For many years, Russian peacemakers within the peacekeeping forces of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) have contributed to stabilizing the situations in Abkhazia, Georgia, in Tajikistan, and in Trans- Dniestria, Moldova. This testifies to the fact that the settlement of conflicts within the framework of the CIS is a priority for Russia. As before, we do not see any reasonable alternative to political settlement of these crisis situations, for which political will, patience and commitment to one’s obligations are needed. We consider it important for the United Nations to continue to play a prominent role in finding solutions in Tajikistan and in Abkhazia, Georgia. The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), which is called upon to play a central role in ensuring European security and stability, can and should be the main United Nations peacemaking partner in Europe. When this arrangement fails to work, not only do specific European countries suffer, but providing for global and continental security becomes complicated. In a broad sense, OSCE peacemaking parameters, ranging from conflict prevention to peacekeeping operations and post- conflict rehabilitation, should be defined in a charter on European security. Russia proposes too that the charter should also reflect such principles important for the future of Europeans as ensuring the security and the foundations of the relations between European and Euro-Atlantic organizations in this area. Then the charter will indeed become a kind of political constitution for the Europe of the twenty-first century. As the Istanbul summit of the OSCE, which is expected to adopt the charter, is approaching fast, we should press ahead with the formulation of a substantive document. The Conference on Interaction and Confidence- building Measures in Asia may become an important factor for stability on the Asian continent after the new positive impetus it received at the recent Almaty Foreign Affairs Ministers’ Meeting of the founding States. The Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) Regional Forum, a venue for active dialogue on a broad spectrum of urgent international issues, is yet another example of the focus of the Asian countries on the formation of solid structures for security and cooperation on the continent. It is necessary to enhance the potential of African regional and subregional organizations, which are acting in close cooperation with the United Nations to curb and cope with conflicts and humanitarian catastrophes emerging in Africa. It is the duty of the international community to render every possible support to the African peoples. While strengthening the legal and practical basis of peacemaking activities, special attention should be paid to what is commonly called the human rights dimension. This relates not only to measures to minimize human sufferings caused by armed conflicts, but also to efforts aimed at preventing humanitarian crises. In this connection, I cannot fail to mention the unacceptable situation of countless thousands of people in the centre of Europe who, due to arbitrary actions by authorities, have found themselves deprived of their citizenship and of the right to use their native language and enjoy full rights in their State of residence. Civilized integration, rather than latent assimilation — this is the way out of the prevailing humanitarian situation in these 15 countries. We welcome the efforts of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), the Council of Europe and the Council of Baltic Sea States (CBSS) aimed at eliminating violations of human rights and freedoms of the non-indigenous population of Latvia and Estonia. We hope that the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights will make her contribution to these efforts. The risk of losing positive dynamics in the sphere of disarmament as a result of attempts to rely on unilateral power methods cannot but cause concern. If the political and legal fabric regulating international relations continues to disintegrate further, then trends to ensure national security through an arms race will become even stronger. Russia has consistently advocated the reduction and limitation of nuclear arsenals and strict compliance with the non-proliferation regime. For without this, ensuring strategic stability would prove impossible. We realize the importance of early ratification of the START II Treaty and of the initiation of START III negotiations, under which Russia would be prepared, on a reciprocal basis, to agree to considerable further reduction of strategic offensive armaments. Naturally, this process will be feasible only if the existing agreements in this field, first of all the ABM Treaty, are strictly observed. We believe that the General Assembly should come out clearly in support of the preservation and observance of the ABM Treaty, which is a cornerstone of strategic stability, because unilateral actions aimed at undermining the time-tested regime established by this Treaty are fraught with extremely dangerous consequences. A collective search for political and diplomatic solutions is the alternative to military responses to the problems of proliferation. This is precisely the target of Russia’s initiative concerning the global system of control over proliferation of missiles and missile technologies. Substantive discussions on threats to international information security must also be continued within the framework and under the auspices of the United Nations. The time has come to reach, through joint efforts, a common understanding of such threats and of measures to reduce them. The twentieth century has brought about economic globalization. All economies have become open and closely linked as a result of advances in science and technology. All these factors have provided a powerful impetus to social and economic development while creating their own specific problems. The gap between the industrial and the formerly colonial worlds has not only persisted but has begun to widen. Development assistance should remain a principal focus of future United Nations activities. Crises, primarily financial ones, have assumed an international character. We must draw the appropriate lessons and modernize the architecture of the world financial system. The United Nations and its specialized agencies should play a role here. The expansion of human economic activities has brought about a globalization of both natural and man-made disasters, and this has become a major destabilizing global factor. The challenges related to the prevention of such disasters and the elimination of their consequences require that the most advanced technologies be used for the benefit of the world community as a whole. Why not consider, therefore, the establishment, under the auspices of the United Nations, of a specialized international emergency agency which would assume relevant functions? A widely known saying reads: 'It is much easier to win a war than a peace.' The United Nations founders won the war and laid the foundations for peace. It is our duty to win this peace and to make it comprehensive and irreversible.   May I begin by adding my congratulations to those of my colleagues on your election, Sir, as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. You are no stranger to these halls — you were here first as an observer and later as a representative. You bring a wealth of experience to your position, and we are pleased to see Namibia taking leadership roles in both the General Assembly and the Security Council. Before I move to the main substance of my remarks today, I want to take this opportunity to mention two matters. First, I welcome the three new members of the United Nations: Kiribati, Nauru and Tonga. Having worked closely with these three countries in our own Asia-Pacific community, it is a particular pleasure for me, as the Foreign Minister of Australia, now to have the opportunity to take that cooperation into this larger family of nations. The second matter is one that seized the attention of the entire Australian population earlier this year: the fate of two CARE Australia workers, Steve Pratt and Peter Wallace, who were imprisoned by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Thanks in no small measure to the support of the international community, Steve and Peter were released from prison on 1 September. The efforts of Secretary-General Kofi Annan, the High Commissioner for Refugees, Mrs. Ogata and the High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mrs. Robinson, and the continued support of the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, were invaluable in gaining the men’s release. I would also like to thank President Ahtisaari of Finland, the Greek Government, Nelson Mandela, Pope John Paul and the many other individuals who generously lent their support to this cause. The international community’s cooperation in this case demonstrates the strong commitment we share to protecting our humanitarian workers from persecution, and to ensuring their capacity to carry out their important work in safety. Australia will continue to support international efforts to secure the release of Branko Jelen, a Yugoslav national and an employee of CARE Australia, who continues to serve time in a Yugoslav prison. You, Mr. President, take up your responsibilities at a most auspicious time, as the nations of the world enter a new millennium. As they do so, it is appropriate for us to reflect on the past and the future of the United Nations, what it has achieved and what tasks remain unfulfilled. 8 Of course, the various aspects of this subject are as numerous and diverse as the operations of the United Nations itself, which has evolved from a modest operation in the early days after the end of the Second World War to become an Organization that touches on just about every facet of human existence. Today I want to concentrate on just two matters. The first is perhaps the most fundamental task before this Organization: the maintenance of global peace and security through humanitarian intervention. This is a subject that has been at the centre of my own thinking, especially over recent weeks because of the role Australia has played in the resolution of the conflict in East Timor. I believe that the activities of the United Nations in that Territory stand as an example of the kind of work to which this Organization can really add value. The other matter — the reform of the United Nations — is on the face of it a rather prosaic matter. But, in truth, reform is the key to every single function of this Organization, for without it we cannot hope to equip the United Nations to face the demands of our ever-changing international environment. The United Nations must change and adapt, or become increasingly irrelevant. I turn now to the question of the future of East Timor. It is now just over a week since the first elements of the International Force in East Timor (INTERFET) began arriving in Dili to commence the task set for it under Security Council resolution 1264 (1999) of 15 September to restore peace and security in East Timor, to protect and support the United Nations Mission in East Timor in carrying out its tasks and, within force capabilities, to facilitate humanitarian assistance programmes. I am pleased to report that INTERFET’s deployment has been smooth and peaceful, and that elements of the force are now spreading across the territory of East Timor. It has begun the vital work of bringing peace back to the troubled island, and of assisting in creating the right climate for the provision of the food, shelter and medical assistance that the East Timorese desperately require. This is the latest chapter in the long association of the United Nations with East Timor, an association that has lasted for more than a quarter of a century. The process that has brought us here has been long and difficult, but at last we may be approaching a peaceful resolution of the tragedy that has beset the East Timorese people for so long. The fact that we have arrived at this point owes much to President Habibie of Indonesia. It was President Habibie who led his country down the path of democracy after the departure of former President Soeharto. Under President Habibie’s guidance, Indonesia held its first democratic elections in more than four decades, and it now awaits the election of its next President. It was also President Habibie who decided to allow the people of East Timor to choose between greater autonomy within Indonesia and independence. Those were momentous decisions — decisions that reflect the massive strides that Indonesian society has made in just a few short months. Australia stood by the Indonesian people as they began their transition to democracy, and we will continue to do so in the years ahead. Regardless of the problems that have beset the transition process in East Timor, President Habibie and his administration deserve full credit for actually initiating that process. I also want to make special mention of the role played by the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, in seeking a peaceful resolution of East Timor's status. The conclusion on 5 May this year of the tripartite Agreement among Portugal, Indonesia and the United Nations owed much to the hard work and perseverance of the Secretary-General, who helped guide the parties towards a settlement that provided for a credible and orderly ballot on East Timor's future. In doing so, he maintained the honourable tradition of his predecessors as Secretary-General, who since 1983 had been working with Portugal and Indonesia towards a comprehensive and just solution to the region's difficulties. It would be remiss of me if I did not also mention the sterling work done both before and after the conclusion of the Agreement by the Secretary-General's Personal Representative, Ambassador Jamsheed Marker, and his deputy, Francesc Vendrell. The work of those two men was crucial to the successful outcome of the negotiations and to the holding of the ballot in East Timor. Of course, the conclusion of the tripartite Agreement was just the beginning of the process to allow the East Timorese to decide their own fate. With the establishment by the Security Council on 11 June of the United Nations Mission in East Timor (UNAMET), the practical work of holding the popular consultation got under way. Under the leadership of Ian Martin, UNAMET began the difficult and often dangerous task of organizing a vote in only 12 short weeks. Thanks to the enthusiasm and application of Ian Martin and his team, that task was accomplished with results that few could have ever dreamed of. The fact that 9 more than 450,000 people were able to register to vote and that 98.6 per cent of them actually did so is a remarkable tribute to the courage and the thirst for democracy of the East Timorese people. But it is also a tribute to the effectiveness of UNAMET and its staff, and a fine example of how effective the United Nations can be in situations of conflict and transition. The work done by UNAMET staff in the days before the ballot and in the tragic days following it deserves our highest praise. Unarmed, in a tense and emotionally charged atmosphere, they carried out their duties magnificently. In particular, the military liaison and civilian police components of UNAMET, led respectively by Brigadier General Rezaqul Haider of Bangladesh and Commissioner Alan Mills of Australia, played crucial roles as the interface between UNAMET and the Indonesian police and military authorities. UNAMET carried out its work at great risk to the staff involved, and, tragically, several locally engaged employees paid for their dedication with their lives. That fact is a stark reminder of the great personal cost that is often associated with United Nations operations, and a reminder to us all of the need to make the security and personal safety of United Nations staff one of our most urgent priorities. The United Nations must rely on its staff to carry out its various mandates. A threat to the person of a United Nations staff member must be treated as a threat against the United Nations itself. It is a matter of unfortunate record that the upsurge of violence in East Timor after the ballot on 30 August swept up not just United Nations staff members, but hundreds and maybe thousands of East Timorese. The world has witnessed the most horrible cruelty visited on the island's population by people who were unwilling to accept the outcome of the vote. To the great credit again of President Habibie, he sought military assistance through the Security Council. In response, the Security Council delivered a strong resolution and a positive mandate for peacekeeping operations, a mandate that will ensure that the will of the East Timorese people, as expressed in the 30 August vote, will be carried out. We in Australia have been very heartened by the positive international response to the call for military forces to make up the international force in East Timor and its successor peacekeeping force. As I have mentioned, the international forces under the command of Major-General Peter Cosgrove, have begun to restore order in East Timor. There are currently some 3,200 personnel on the ground, drawn from a range of countries, with strong representation from our own Asia-Pacific region. The large number of countries participating in the force, and their wide geographical representation, is evidence of the widespread international determination to see a peaceful and orderly transition in East Timor's status. I am also very pleased to note that UNAMET personnel have now returned to the island, and will be able to continue their important work. In discussing the activities of the United Nations in East Timor, I must also mention the humanitarian work done by United Nations agencies. Mrs. Sadako Ogata, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, has travelled to West Timor to examine the plight of East Timorese refugees in that territory, and Australia fully supports her efforts. Australia is also the staging point for humanitarian assistance operations being carried out by agencies such as the World Food Programme and the United Nations Children's Fund. Additional relief efforts are also planned by the World Health Organization and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. Australia has already pledged $7 million towards the humanitarian efforts of United Nations agencies and other organizations. The United Nations is also seeking to address the human rights violations that have been widespread in East Timor. Security Council resolution 1264 (1999) called on those responsible for violence in East Timor to be brought to justice. Australia supports efforts by the Indonesian Government and the United Nations to bring to account those responsible for the grievous acts of criminal violence visited upon the East Timorese people, and will offer all appropriate assistance in this regard. More generally, there is now an urgent need to move as soon as possible to the third phase of the United Nations plan for East Timor. This will require all parties, most especially Indonesia and Portugal, to work closely with the Secretariat. Australia will do what it can to assist in this process, which will build the foundation for the transition in the territory's status. In its activities in East Timor, the United Nations has demonstrated some of its fundamental strengths as an organization. It is helping to bring about the resolution of an international problem that had been festering for a quarter of a century. It provided the infrastructure that 10 allowed a free and fair expression of the will of the East Timorese people. And when the security situation could not be controlled, it facilitated the creation of an international force to put the transition process back on track and end gross violations of human rights. I have been struck by the deep historical resonances of this process, for when the United Nations was established at the end of the Second World War, part of its rationale as an organization was to have been the impartial and objective resolution of international problems, free of the old cycles of retribution through resort to aggression. The ancient resort to armed force and the notion that might was right were to have been overturned, and in their place the community of nations was to cooperate to settle international disputes and solve global problems. The world, having won a victory over nazism, was determined that similar evils would never again prevail. Well, we have seen plenty of occasions in the past 50 years where practice has not measured up to the ideals. But every now and then, the process works, and I believe that many elements of the work of the United Nations in East Timor are evidence of that. Of course, that is not to say that the process cannot be improved; of course it can. But if we can identify and build upon the positive elements of our East Timor experience, I believe that we can not only improve the situation of the people of that territory, but may also be able to provide a speedier and more thorough resolution of other international crises in the future. We need also to draw lessons from the negative aspects of events in East Timor. Through our efforts there, we have shown what the United Nations can do well. Let us build on that effectiveness, and strive for an organization that is even more relevant to global peace and security in the next millennium. I now turn to another aspect of increased effectiveness: the question of United Nations reform. In a recent report on preparations for the Millennium Assembly and the millennium summit, the Secretary-General described the United Nations as a unique institution. No one could disagree that the contribution of the United Nations to the pursuit of peace and security, to the economic and social advancement of all peoples and to the promotion of human rights over the last 50 years or so has been not just of enormous value, but also truly unique in world history. The twenty-first century, however, will bring with it new challenges and, I hope, new opportunities. Under the direction of Kofi Annan, this Organization has begun the important and necessary steps to equip itself to face these challenges through genuine administrative and management reform. This has included promising changes in financial and personnel practices, significant economies, improving coordination between United Nations bodies, significant rationalization of Secretariat structures and more efficient use of technology. Such reforms make the work of the United Nations more efficient and provide real savings for the Organization. Those savings can then be used for other programmes that benefit all Member States, but particularly the developing Members of the United Nations. The challenge for the United Nations — and, let us all recognize its Member States — is to ensure that this momentum is sustained and taken forward. A former Australian Prime Minister, Sir Robert Menzies, said over 40 years ago that “when we talk of the United Nations, we should remember what it is in fact, and not be led off by dreams of what we would like it to be in another kind of world.” We need to accept that the United Nations exists in a real world and be realistic about what it can achieve. We need to ensure that the Organization's structures and processes better reflect the realities of the twenty-first century. We need an expanded, more representative and more transparent Security Council, and an electoral group system which reflects the geo-political and economic realities of today rather than the early nineteen sixties. To achieve real reforms on these and other subjects, Member States must work together in a sustained and cooperative manner. And they must also demonstrate their commitment to the Organization by paying their contributions on time and in full. Reform of the United Nations means building a stronger and more effective Organization that can deliver on its commitments to the world's people. It means less waste and more practical activities. It means developing an Organization that is equipped to meet whatever challenges the new century may bring. Ultimately, it means creating a United Nations that can maintain its relevance when many national and international institutions are falling by the wayside, made obsolete by the rapid pace of change. I want to conclude my remarks with a call for the United Nations to concentrate on building on its strengths. I have mentioned the need to stick with a programme of thorough and fundamental reform, for that is a basic prerequisite for the continued effectiveness of the Organization. But I have also mentioned the United Nations work in East Timor as an example of how the Organization can, and does, make a real difference in the resolution of complex and challenging foreign policy and humanitarian problems. Not only was the United Nations able to administer a ballot in circumstances in which many observers thought the task impossible, but it was also able to provide for the insertion of a peacekeeping force when law and order broke down. Those who wished to exterminate an entire community were foiled. Those are great strengths. But we need to be able to consolidate them to make the United Nations a more effective Organization. We must, for example, be able to ensure that the United Nations can intervene quickly when rapidly deteriorating conditions threaten entire nations. That was the lesson of Rwanda. I was struck by the comments made by the Secretary-General on this subject when he addressed the Assembly last week. As the Secretary- General suggests, changing international circumstances — including the spread of notions of individual rights and the idea that the international community has a responsibility to respond effectively to humanitarian crises — are challenging traditional notions of national sovereignty. The United Nations needs to focus on these challenges and begin the process of defining when and how the Organization should act in the face of humanitarian crises. It may be an old cliché to say that the world is growing ever smaller, but it is true just the same. In days gone by, the nations of the world may have been forgiven if they acted too slowly in the face of a humanitarian crisis. Tales of atrocities, famine and natural disaster took weeks or months to filter out from the more inaccessible areas of the globe. Today, those same stories are likely to be on television screens within hours, or even minutes. In the face of such indisputable evidence, Governments will be forced to act. Those that resist will have to face a domestic and international audience as well informed as they. That is the kind of environment in which the United Nations will increasingly have to function, where the results of inaction will be seen instantly and the consequences of failure subject to instant and very telling scrutiny. Some will be concerned about interference in national sovereignty, and obviously that is an important and legitimate concern. Others will say that the greater principle is that of natural human solidarity. But whatever view is correct, this environment is a fact we now have to deal with, whether we like it or whether we don't. When we all gather here in New York each year, it is easy to get caught up in the daily business of the United Nations, in the resolutions, the committee meetings, the briefings and the caucusing. How often do we stop, and remind ourselves of the purposes for which we meet? If we genuinely wish to uphold the Charter, if we really do want to maintain international peace and security, help develop our economic and social strengths and promote respect for human rights and fundamental reforms, surely we can start by upholding the most basic right of all, that of life. In the face of acts of genocide, or of human rights abuses on a horrendous scale, the nations of the world must act. I am a firm realist when it comes to foreign policy, but am also a great believer in the value of idealism. More than 50 years ago, our predecessors created the United Nations in the firm hope that there could be a new international order to replace the old, a spirit of cooperative international action that could avoid the competition and aggression that caused two world wars. As we approach the end of this century, it is true that the United Nations has not lived up to all the hopes of its founders. But the great promise of the Organization remains. The United Nations response to developments in East Timor has shown just what positive action on the part of this Organization can accomplish. We know the great things this body can achieve. Let us all try to build on those achievements, so that we may create an Organization that can truly address the most pressing problems of the international community. We can build an active and practical United Nations to meet both the aspirations of its Member nations and, also, the legitimate needs of all humanity. This year is very special to Bangladesh at the United Nations. It is the twenty-fifth anniversary of Bangladesh’s admission to this “Parliament of Man”. I bring greetings from the people of Bangladesh. It is gratifying to us that on this twenty-fifth anniversary, we have you, Sir, presiding over the General Assembly. You are a freedom fighter. You lead a country which was liberated in recent times, and yet, in its short membership in the United Nations, it has contributed so much to the work of the Organization. We convey our sincere appreciation to Foreign Minister Didier Opertti of Uruguay, our President during the last session, for his excellent work. I would also like to welcome the three new members of the General Assembly: Kiribati, Nauru and Tonga. We sense their joy and excitement, as we experienced 25 years ago. I convey our sincerest thanks and gratitude to the Secretary-General and to all Member States for their support and assistance in helping us overcome the aftermath of the disastrous floods that hit our country last year. The magnitude of the disaster was unprecedented in our history. The support of the international community was a source of inspiration and encouragement to our people in facing the challenges of rehabilitation and reconstruction. I stand here today with pride and satisfaction. The Father of our Nation, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, 25 years ago delivered our first address to the General Assembly as head of Government of the sovereign and independent State of Bangladesh. His message on that day expressed the nation’s gratitude to the international community for standing by our people in the darkest days of oppression; to apprise the international community of our great struggle for freedom and self- determination; to articulate to the world our faith in democracy, justice, freedom and human rights; and to spell out the basic elements of our foreign policy. Despite the political upheavals in the country since then, none ventured to alter the foreign policy guidelines laid down by the Father of our Nation. We were thus able to contribute positively to the United Nations by serving in several important commissions and executive bodies in its system and participating actively in United Nations peacekeeping operations. We were privileged to preside over the forty-first session of the General Assembly and to serve one term in a non-permanent seat on the Security Council. Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman carried the torch of an indomitable people to the United Nations when he stood at this very rostrum before the General Assembly in 1974 and said, “The noble ideals enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations are the very ideals for which millions of our people have made the supreme sacrifice. I know that the souls of our martyrs join us in pledging that the Bangalee nation fully commits itself to the building of a world order in which the aspiration of all men for peace and justice will be realized.” (A/PV.2243, para. 2) Twenty-five years later, I am here to renew that pledge. In these 25 years we have seen the partnership between Bangladesh and the United Nations mature. From our early reconstruction needs for national development to steps for empowering people and establishing social justice, the United Nations has been with us. We have also been able to lend support to the strengthening of the Organization and have contributed in its efforts to eradicate poverty and disease, maintain peace and security and support the fulfilment of the rights of the oppressed and the subjugated. We sincerely hope that the development of cooperation between Bangladesh and the 14 United Nations agencies in our country will be expanded and strengthened in future years. Bangladesh has noted with great concern the recent decline in commitments by donor countries to the United Nations development system, and to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in particular. Bangladesh attaches great value to multilateral assistance as a reliable and trusted source of impartial expertise and urges donor countries to meet the commitments made in the Executive Board of UNDP for the multi-year funding framework, enabling countries such as Bangladesh to plan development programmes accordingly. Recalling the recent statement of the G-8 in Cologne, Bangladesh wishes to note with pride that it is already utilizing over half of the country funds available from UNDP for programmes relating to improving governance, which are helping us to address fundamental constraints to faster development. Now is the time for donors to recognize the commitment we have made and the success we have achieved by increasing resources for these valuable programmes. Within months of his historic address to this world body in 1974, my father and the Father of our Nation, along with my mother and three brothers, the youngest one being 10 years of age, were brutally assassinated by a group of murderous and misguided military officers on 15 August 1975. Amongst those killed were my uncles, my two sisters-in-law, two cousins and a host of other relatives. My sister and I were the only survivors, as we were out of the country at the time. Coups and counter-coups followed one another at regular intervals, leading to military rule of one sort or another. I was forced to live in exile from the late 1970s to the early 1980s. I began to struggle from exile against the autocratic rule. After coming home in 1991, I stepped up that struggle for the restoration of people’s right to vote and their right to freedom and to food. I was harassed and arrested by the authoritarian regimes, and several attempts were made on my life. But nothing could deter me either from my path or from my goal, the restoration of democracy. The movement grew in strength, and finally victory was on the side of the people. Today democracy has taken firm root in Bangladesh for all time to come. We have strengthened the parliamentary system. Prime Minister’s question time has been introduced. The session is televised and broadcast live. To institutionalize democracy and make it sustainable, we have ensured the people’s right to vote by introducing the institution of a non-party, caretaker Government to be formed three months before each election. My struggle now is to guarantee the people’s right to food; in other words, economic emancipation to a sustainable livelihood. I am driven by a desire to create a just environment, not only for my own people but also for all of humankind. The creation of the United Nations was aimed at sparing the world from the scourge of another world war and to ensure that human beings are guaranteed their basic rights. During its more than 50 years of existence, it has stood the test of time. National and internationally, we have taken peace and development as two vital and integrally linked objectives. We have taken steps to foster peace regionally. Immediately after it came into office, my Government took the initiative to solve the Ganges water-sharing issue with our neighbour, India. We solved this long outstanding issue successfully in December 1996. I visited India and Pakistan following the nuclear tests in South Asia and urged that we all must do our utmost to deserve peace in our region and devote our limited resources to economic and social development. An accord was concluded in December 1997 between the Government and representatives of the tribal people living in the south-eastern part of our country without third-party mediation. The accord brought peace after more than two decades to the strife-torn area of the Chittagong Hill Tracts. Peace now reigns in the area: the former insurgents surrendered their arms and returned to peaceful lives; all 63,000 refugees from across the border have returned; and there have been no incidents of violence there since the signing of the accord. We have no illusions that the key to our development and progress is directly linked to investment in our people. Our efforts are now being directed towards transforming our vast human resources into a productive force. Our development programmes are targeted on rapid poverty alleviation. We have adopted policies to strengthen the socio-economic infrastructure of our country. We have given priority to the various social sectors, including education, health care, poverty alleviation and population growth control, and we have allocated more than 30 per cent of the budget to the social sectors with the objective of poverty alleviation, empowerment and human development. Our programmes include shelter and sustainable livelihood through the Ashrayon programme, housing for the poor, health care, education for the poor, microcredit, old-age pensions, income transfers to destitute women and targeted poverty alleviation programmes. This effort towards the economic emancipation of the people is our preoccupation now: we 15 want to build the golden Bengal dreamt of by the father of our nation. We have adopted specific policies to ensure equality between women and men. We have promulgated laws and set up institutional mechanisms to promote women’s rights, to ensure that they have choices and opportunities, that victims are given redress and that stern punishments are meted out to rapists for their deeds. The effectiveness of microcredit in empowering women has been phenomenal. We have also brought women into decision-making at all levels. During the last local Government elections, more than 14,000 women were elected to office. In our foreign policy, we adhere to the principle of friendship towards all. It is a constitutional requirement to base our international relations on the principles set out in the United Nations Charter. How do we address the critical issues of the new millennium? We consider peace to be a fundamental human right to be attained, sustained, promoted and carried forward at all times. Without development there can be no peace, and without cooperation, no development. There is no option, then, but to have genuine cooperation between the developed and the developing countries for the eradication of poverty and the fulfilment of the people’s aspirations for development. Bangladesh has been the coordinator of the least developed countries for the last two decades. We believe strongly that special measures should be taken by the international community to help these countries in their efforts to develop and to participate fully in the global economy. Human rights is the essence of peace. Unless we ensure that citizens live a life of dignity, where their rights are secure, we cannot have a just and peaceful world. This is equally true for communities and nations. In our region, we have nurtured the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC), which has taken many initiatives to improve the lives of the peoples of the region. At the subregional level, we are cooperating with Bhutan, Nepal and India in the South Asian Development Quadrangle. The United Nations is the only universal body that deals with all fields of human activity. It has been a catalyst in many initiatives and has bettered the lives of people around the world. In the 1990s the United Nations convened a series of global conferences to address major challenges facing humankind. They addressed problems which were beyond the capacity of individual countries to solve and which called for wide-ranging international cooperation. I believe that the international community should ensure coordinated and integrated follow-up for effective and full implementation of the decisions of those conferences. In Bangladesh, we have taken concrete measures in this regard. We need to ensure that the United Nations can continue to meet the evolving needs of humankind in the next century. For that, we must have an effective and efficient United Nations. I am happy that Bangladesh has been at the forefront of the adoption of these steps at the United Nations. In this regard, I would like to put on record our great appreciation of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan. He has made remarkable achievements in the short time that he has been at the helm of the United Nations. He fully deserves our wholehearted praise and support. There is no denying the fact that the world needs the United Nations. But we must remember that it is equally true that the United Nations needs the world. All countries must do their best to fulfil their commitments to make the Organization strong and durable. This has been the endeavour of Bangladesh for the last 25 years. May Bangladesh live forever. Long live the United Nations.  I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you, Mr. Gurirab, on your assumption of the office of President of this body. My Government hails the selection of a distinguished leader from a new developing nation to lead the General Assembly into the new millennium. We are also confident that you will live up to the high standards of your esteemed predecessor, Mr. Opertti. It is with pride that I congratulate and extend a welcome to our Pacific island neighbours — the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the great Kingdom of Tonga — on their admission into the United Nations family. This represents a large contribution from our region to the attainment of a key goal of the United Nations system, that of universality. I want to extend the sincere condolences of the people of the Federated States of Micronesia for the earthquakes in Turkey, Greece and, more recently, in Taiwan. We are saddened by the violence in East Timor as its people seek to exercise their right to self-determination. We also feel deep sympathy for the innocent families in Russia, exposed to merciless bomb attacks, and for those people in all regions of the world who are suffering today from violence, terrorism and violations of human rights. Condolences are also in order on the recent death of His Majesty Hassan II of Morocco. His strong personal contributions to the process of achieving peace in the Middle East will be remembered. As Chairman of the South Pacific Forum, I am privileged to deliver the following remarks on behalf of its 16 member countries. The South Pacific Forum is a unique organization centred on the Heads of Government of 16 Pacific nations which share a very special part of the world: the vast expanses of ocean and islands in the central and western Pacific, both north and south of the Equator. Forum member countries vary greatly in land area, ocean area, population, resource endowment, economic development, social structures, language and culture. However, we all share a common bond as Forum members and have established consensus positions, which transcend our diversity, on a wide range of issues. We have also agreed to work together in pursuit of regional stability and towards the well-being of our people. Fourteen of these Forum members are small island developing States. Much work has been done to assist these smaller members in their pursuit of sustainable development. Such initiatives are reflected in proposals by the Forum’s Ministers of economics, for extensive economic reforms. Recently, Forum trade Ministers made ground-breaking recommendations on trade initiatives which include the establishment of a Pacific free trade area consistent with the rules and standards of the World Trade Organization. These recommendations will be considered by the Forum heads of Government at their annual meeting in Palau next month. Past practice has been for the formal statement from each annual meeting, known as the Forum Communiqué, to be offered for inclusion as a document of the General Assembly. As the meeting this year will take place after the conclusion of the general debate, a request for inclusion of the Forum Communiqué from the Palau meeting will be made at a later date. Last year, at their meeting in Pohnpei, Federated States of Micronesia, all 16 Forum leaders reaffirmed their endorsement of the Barbados Programme of Action 14 for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. The leaders saw the Programme of Action as a comprehensive framework with great potential for the region, and commended implementation efforts already under way at the national and regional levels. In this regard, Forum leaders strongly supported the General Assembly initiative to hold, next week, the special session to review progress under the Barbados Programme of Action. Forum countries have maintained close involvement with the preparatory process for the special session, and appreciate the strong focus on the concerns of small island developing States in the work of United Nations bodies such as the Commission on Sustainable Development. We look forward to outcomes from the special session that will bring a new and stronger focus on our needs in the pursuit of sustainable development, and step up the pace of measures to implement the Barbados Programme of Action. The common need for accelerated and sustainable economic development remains a major focus among the Forum member countries; in fact, the Forum itself has for some time been implementing what is known as the Forum Economic Action Plan. The Plan attempts to address regional concerns, which are echoed in the Barbados Programme of Action. Forum members feel that the advancement of this collective, regional Plan is a constructive response to the mandate for regional action expressed in the Barbados Programme. In the context of overall economic development planning and assistance and of social and ecological concerns, Forum members continue to maintain a keen interest in having the United Nations adopt a vulnerability index. The existing criteria for determining eligibility for concessional aid and trade treatment and for critical classifications such as least developed country status are purely macroeconomic, without any consideration of the environmental and natural risks we face, as a region, on a daily basis. Regional work has already begun under the South Pacific Geoscience Commission on developing an environmental vulnerability index. Only by encompassing social and environmental factors within its assessments will the international community be able to achieve equity when addressing the special circumstances and needs of small island developing countries. We appreciate the continuing discussion of this matter by the Commission on Sustainable Development, including at its most recent session, and call for tangible action by the year 2000. In last year’s general debate, the Forum expressed renewed hopes for the United Nations process to combat anthropogenic global warming, sea-level rise and other adverse effects of global climate change. We took a measure of pride that our group, which includes both Annex I and developing countries, found common ground at the political level to call for effective action, despite the widely differing circumstances of member States. It seemed that with the successful negotiation of the Kyoto Protocol, the world’s nations had finally recognized the need to begin taking action, on the basis of legally binding commitments, to achieve specified targets and timetables. Forum members were also relieved by the recognition that small island developing States have particular needs for assistance with adapting to the effects of climate change. We welcomed the formulation of specific tools, such as the Clean Development Mechanism, which promise to be useful in enabling island countries to do their part in combating combat climate change, within the framework and parameters of our own national circumstances. There is of course no time to be lost. People everywhere are experiencing the sometimes disastrous effects of climate change. From record-setting droughts to killer floods, hurricanes and typhoons, the effects of sea- level rise are already taking a toll on small island States. Unfortunately, even as scientific evidence of climate change has become impossible to ignore, the parties to the Convention have yet to go very far towards getting the Kyoto process under way. The political will of the Governments of the parties simply does not match the technical dedication of delegates to pursuing solutions at the numerous meetings that are taking place on this subject. 15 After attending the Conference of the Parties to the Convention last year in Buenos Aires, I came away with the impression that without a real sense of urgency the Convention might choke on its own complexity, to the delight of the minority that opposes it. Unless all countries align themselves with the Convention’s purposes and take urgent collective action, we could find ourselves here at the seventy-fifth session of the General Assembly, without being any closer to meaningful implementation of the Convention. By that time, leaders would be expressing regret over a steadily growing list of climate-related disasters and watching the pile of sandbags along the FDR Drive outside as the tidal surges along the East River grow stronger. By that time, of course, most island nations in the Forum would have disappeared and we would have failed utterly. Discussing emission reductions would be a hollow gesture by then. Even though our spirits are bolstered by the encouragement of our annex I Forum partners Australia and New Zealand, the 14 Forum small island States grow weary of calling attention to our special vulnerability to climate change and to our status on the front line of potential worldwide catastrophe. I would sincerely hope that by now a great majority of people, not only in the United Nations system but from all across the globe, have a strong mental picture of the helpless situation of low-lying islands and coastlines in the face of rising seas. We are very grateful for the considerable extent to which our pleas have been taken into account, but while we may flatter ourselves that we have served, in a way, as a voice of conscience for the Framework Convention on Climate Change, we wish also to make positive contributions to its implementation. Thus, the emphasis of all Forum members now is to assure that we do our part to participate in and to advance the considerable amount of work that must be done. The South Pacific Regional Environmental Programme continues to serve our governments as a useful focal point and to provide valuable expertise. Forum countries have long been active in working to understand the potential of the Clean Development Mechanism for the region. The Republic of the Marshall Islands recently hosted an important workshop on the Clean Development Mechanism that was attended by more than 40 countries, and in June, Australia and the Forum secretariat hosted a workshop in Nadi. We are severely hampered, however, by the shortage of personnel and financial resources to maintain continuous participation in the host of ongoing activities. The United Nations and bilateral donors have been very generous in supporting our attendance at conferences, but the time demands on our short-staffed officials at home and abroad can be overwhelming, considering other growing concerns such as biodiversity, the oceans and coral reefs. I know that this problem is by no means unique to Forum island countries, nor even to small developing countries as a group. But for us, as well as for many others, we ask that these limitations should not be disregarded by larger countries and organizations in the management of the international agenda. Once again, we express sincere appreciation for the support of donors that have made our participation possible. In addition, we would emphasize the importance of applying a coordinated approach to scheduling in order to facilitate the participation of small delegations that would not wish to be marginalized by overlapping meetings on topics of critical concern to us. Finally, another topic of concern for the Forum at the next annual meeting will be the continuing shipment by industrialized Powers of plutonium and radioactive wastes through our region. Forum nations have consistently expressed their concerns on this issue, especially about liability and compensation arrangements in the event of an accident. From 16 to 17 September this year, discussions took place in Suva between the legal experts of the Forum countries and the representatives of France, Japan and the United Kingdom concerning trans- shipments of nuclear materials through the region. This meeting was arranged by the Forum secretariat, in line with the 1998 Forum Communiqué. We are encouraged by this development and strongly urge the representatives of the three shipping States to demonstrate their readiness to explore innovative ways to address the concerns of Forum members: there is more at stake than the well- being and comfort of the larger populations in the North. Putting this disregard for the sovereign interests of Forum countries to one side for a moment, the Pacific Ocean is a vital breadbasket for the entire planet: any accident will have serious and adverse implications far beyond our shores for generations to come. Forum countries have derived some encouragement from the decision by France, Japan and the United Kingdom to consult with Forum members regarding safety and compensation arrangements for the most recent shipment of mixed oxide fuel from Europe to Japan. We are further encouraged by the decision of the three shipping States to provide information on the shipping routes of the two ships carrying the fuel, consistent with 16 the rigorous safety and security obligations with which they must comply under the international conventions governing transport of nuclear materials, including the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Materials. We, the Forum countries, earnestly hope to make some inroads, not only in the immediate situation but, more importantly, in the long run, into the ethical consciences of the developed nations. Since time immemorial they have regarded our region as a convenient area for any kind of dangerous or undesirable activity that serves their interests at home. With the welcome admission to this body of three more of our number, we are now numerous enough in this forum to assert forcefully that we wish no further invasion to place our peoples at risk, irrespective of the reasons others may have for choosing to disregard our concerns. I have by no means touched on every topic of concern that is to be discussed at the next Forum meeting. Following that meeting, as I stated earlier, the complete Communiqué will be submitted to this body, and I commend it to all delegations. The views I have expressed on behalf of the South Pacific Forum are, of course, fully embraced by my country, the Federated States of Micronesia. I would like now to address other issues, speaking only for my own small island developing State. Since 1991, when the Federated States of Micronesia was admitted to membership in this body, we have experienced — from the viewpoint of a developing country and particularly as a small island developing State — a truly unique decade in multilateral relations. We emerged on the international scene just in time to become a part of the movement that radically changed previous notions about development, namely the Rio process. The timing could not have been better for us. Just as we took up the task of formulating our own agenda for the future of our island nation, the world as a whole came to recognize that the issues of environment and development are not opposed but, rather, are intertwined. We thus incorporated into our development planning from the outset a mandate not just for development, but for sustainable development. We feel fortunate in this regard and in how the principle of sustainability is fully integral to our activities, for, while we are deeply appreciative of the concerns that other nations have shown for the difficulties faced by small island States like ourselves, and while we remain anxious for the further implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action, we realize that the action referred to must be, first and foremost, our own. We ourselves must be very serious not only in recognizing our special development obstacles but in instituting and carrying out programmes to overcome them in a sustainable way. And this must be done, not as a temporary, short-term or even medium- term proposition, but as a way of life for generations to come. No amount of outside assistance can provide sustainable development. As small-island countries, we must individually and collectively commit ourselves to staying the course once we have seen it and possess the means to navigate it. Without that commitment, our sails will never fill and we will remain adrift on a journey that can only come to a sad end. As a new member of the international community, we have been faced with the need to rapidly become familiar with the dynamics of multilateral interaction within the United Nations system while at the same time trying to acquire a practical working knowledge of the various simultaneous processes. But there is no apprenticeship here at the United Nations. From the outset, it has been our full responsibility to participate, on a basis of equality, in the ongoing work of numerous bodies directly integral to the United Nations or related to it. It has been, and continues to be, a demanding experience, but inasmuch as we have learned about others, we are also learning more about ourselves and moving towards greater maturity as a nation. We have also developed a deep appreciation for the often unheralded but vital work of translating global problems into solutions that is pursued faithfully by the thousands of administrative and diplomatic members of the United Nations family. It is difficult to conceive of a future in which the nations of our ever-shrinking planet will not have a forum such as this — the United Nations. Yet one cannot help but be uneasy on hearing whispers of discouragement as the United Nations is challenged by issues that seem to grow in number and complexity. We sometimes hear that perhaps the Organization has outlived its usefulness and has inadequate capacity to deal with global crises in the areas of security, social justice and the environment. Some are said to feel that other, more sharply focused bodies would be better suited to dealing with the anticipated crises of the new millennium. 17 Without question, the effective responsiveness of this Organization is constantly being challenged. But this is not a sign of failure, nor of a lack of capacity. Neither does it suggest that we need another instrument. It is, rather, an indication of the growing interconnectedness of the global community, and of the growing inclination among nations to find and recognize their common interests and to work together to advance global peace and harmony. In order to maintain and improve the responsiveness of the United Nations in a world of increasing demands and challenges, it is necessary that we continually evolve and adapt effectively in our pursuit of the ideals of the Charter of this Organization. Only in this way can we keep the Organization on a positive course and faithfully translate the mandates of the Charter into terms of continuing relevance. This is the attitude with which we must approach reform. It is not a consequence of inadequacy, which the word “reform” may suggest, but, rather, it is a positive and evolutionary process. This is easily said, but, as we all know, it is very difficult to put into practice. Even so, we must not allow that high degree of difficulty to plunge us into frustration and defeat. The great achievements of those who have come before us in the last 54 years must be honoured by our unshakable determination to take the United Nations seriously into the next millennium as the single most effective multilateral instrument for the betterment of humankind. If the United Nations is to maintain and even improve its capacity to deal with major issues and improve the lot of disadvantaged peoples, I respectfully suggest that there is a need for broader incorporation of developing countries in the decision-making process. More and more, it seems, a relatively small group of developed countries are seen on the front lines here and in other related international bodies. There is a perception that, despite the formal application of the rules, the substantive participation of developing countries in dealing with world problems is in reality waning rather than increasing. This does not bode well for the future of international relations. As the trend towards globalization continues to strengthen, this body as a whole will need to be more involved in making important decisions — not a permanent 5, not a G-7, but a “G-188”. Probably the single most urgently needed reform is the enlargement of the Security Council. Naturally, such an important step must not be taken in haste, but by this time we should be closer to finding an acceptable formulation. The plain fact is that the openness of the most powerful nations to accept rational and realistic change in the Security Council is a key indicator of the future of global multilateral relations in general, and of this Organization in particular. The impact of success with this issue would be felt in positive ways throughout the United Nations Organization, and it would stimulate renewed confidence in the Charter. That result alone is badly needed and should itself inspire greater effort to overcome the difficulties ahead. It would be unrealistic to ignore the inevitability of the fact that larger, more powerful nations will most often take the lead in the United Nations. In fact, they should do so as a matter of responsibility; they possess the resources and the capacity. However, leadership should not become domination, and it should not leave the developing world marginalized. I therefore emphasize the need for a restructured Security Council. I also visualize a General Assembly that remains in the forefront of global decision-making, for real outcomes on real issues. Being from a Pacific island nation, I naturally have particular concerns about our region. Without demeaning in any way the considerable attention that we do receive, I must say that the Pacific islands region often takes a back seat in the councils of the greater Powers, which are prone to include only the Pacific rim countries among their primary concerns. This can be understood, given our small populations and land masses, which only underscore our remoteness in the vast Pacific Ocean. But it should not be forgotten that we Pacific islanders are custodians of some of the world's greatest untapped wealth. In the coming millennium, our region is certain to play a greater role than ever before in meeting the needs of the rest of the world for food and mineral resources. If these resources are to be conserved in the proper way and harvested in a sustainable manner, the peoples of the Pacific islands must be dealt with fairly, and on a basis of partnership with the developed world. And the time to start is now. The growing global involvement with and reliance upon the tremendous resource base in our region must rest on a foundation of regional security. Nowhere is there a better example of the need for comprehensive security in the modern sense, extending beyond military considerations and also including economic, social and environmental security. This leads me to the present need for proper stewardship of the oceans and seas throughout the world. 18 This subject was recently discussed in depth by the Commission on Sustainable Development, and it is on our agenda at this session. I want to emphasize that the Federated States of Micronesia solidly supports the positions expressed by the Alliance of Small Island States on this subject. We believe that oceans and seas present a special, even crucial, case for international cooperation and coordination, and that the General Assembly is the appropriate body to provide this oversight. Indeed, it was mandated to do so by Agenda 21. Furthermore, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea provides the framework for action in this area. We thus have existing structures; there is no need to create new institutions. We believe that the size of the task will require continuing effort on an annual basis, so that an ongoing working-group format within the context of preparations for each annual General Assembly will be more rewarding than a large, one-time conference. Above all, the process must seek the widest possible input, drawing upon expertise at the regional level, and providing assistance to ensure the participation of developing countries, especially small island States. In these brief moments it is not possible to express all our views on all the matters we deem important. Of necessity, therefore, I must leave much to the work of our representatives in the Committees here and in other United Nations organs throughout the year. I wish, however, to plead with this body for a universal awakening to the single most important reality of our lives today. This reality is that all our interests become more closely linked with each passing generation. We are all responsible for turning back the consequences of our past selfish behaviour. The destruction of war, the improper stewardship of our natural resources and the pollution of our living space are looming global disasters. Combined, they will overwhelm the Earth's population unless we find common ground and take action. That common ground exists. It exists here. It does not ask us to surrender our nationhood or our cultures. It is the Charter of the United Nations, a visionary document that has guided our troubled world through the faltering steps of increasing multilateral awareness, and today provides a format for our very survival. God grant that we will have the political will to sustain it.  The present session provides Member States with an opportunity to hold a serious and substantive review of world affairs and the role of the United Nations, with particular focus on the forthcoming twenty-first century. In this respect, I have no doubt that the deliberations here will be useful in preparing for the millennium summit and the Millennium Assembly next year, to which events the Mongolian Government attaches great importance. The United Nations is a truly universal organization comprising large and small, developed and developing countries. This year its membership reached 188 with the admission of three new members: I take this opportunity to convey the warm congratulations of the Mongolian people to the peoples of Kiribati, Nauru and Tonga on this auspicious occasion. It is gratifying to note that our Organization is not only enlarging its ranks but is also making tangible efforts to restructure its activities in order to enhance its efficiency and effectiveness. This is a movement in the right direction. Further promotion of reforms is in the interests of the entire international community, especially the small and medium- sized States. Mongolia consistently supports United Nations reforms aimed at further strengthening the Organization’s role in ensuring international peace and security and promoting disarmament, development, social progress and the peaceful settlement of conflicts in various parts of the world. Increasing globalization and interdependence make it imperative that the international community should redouble its cooperative efforts to meet existing and future challenges and ensure a more secure environment for all nations. Globalization and interdependence also demonstrate the growing importance of multilateralism in world affairs and thus the need to further strengthen and invigorate the United Nations and other international institutions. As a result of its reforms, the United Nations should become more viable and effective, addressing the world’s problems equitably. The 1999 report of the Secretary-General on the work of the Organization (A/54/1) gives, in our view, a clear and analytical review of United Nations activities, its achievements and setbacks, and the challenges that lie ahead; it contains specific proposals on further measures to improve the Organization’s performance the better to serve the interests of its Member States. The Mongolian Government is supportive of the idea advanced by the Secretary-General in paragraph 61 of his report concerning the need to shift from a culture of reaction, to a culture of prevention. It is in this spirit that Mongolia will next week sign a memorandum of understanding with the United Nations on standby agreements whereby it would pledge to participate in future United Nations operations by contributing staff officers, military observers and medical officers. Mongolia is consistently pursuing its all-embracing democratic reforms and its transition to a market economy. Neither is easy. However, the Government and the people of Mongolia are strongly committed to the choice they made 10 years ago. From this rostrum, I would like to reaffirm that the democratic process in Mongolia is irreversible and that Mongolia’s foreign policy will remain constant. My Government greatly appreciates the support and assistance given Mongolia by the international community of donor countries and international organizations. That support and assistance continue to be an important factor in our reform and development efforts. The major thrust of Mongolia’s development strategy is to accelerate economic growth by further advancing macroeconomic stabilization and development of a private-sector-led economy. Mongolia is giving high priority to creating an economic system that is flexible, open, allows a free flow of foreign capital, ensures a competitive environment and is underpinned by stable government policies and a reinvigorated, modern financial sector that encourages economic growth. In pursuing this policy, my Government pays particular attention to the social dimensions of economic reforms, namely poverty alleviation, unemployment reduction and protection for the vulnerable strata of the country’s population. Mongolia’s foreign policy activities aim to create a favourable external environment for implementing this development strategy. At the same time, my country is striving to make its contribution to strengthening international peace and stability generally as well as promoting dialogue and cooperation in the Asia-Pacific region. Active participation in regional affairs — integration into regional processes coupled with consolidation of our bilateral ties with the countries of the region — is one of Mongolia’s foreign policy priorities. I am pleased to say that this year has been especially fruitful in this respect. International developments highlight once again the fragility of peace and stability in certain areas of the world and the need for concerted actions and for the 6 increased cooperation of States to prevent the outbreak of new conflicts, seek viable solutions to the existing disputes and promote further mutual understanding and trust among nations. While noting some positive developments in international relations, Mongolia is seriously concerned with the lingering zones of tension, ethnic strife and armed conflict in Africa, Asia and Europe. It calls on the parties involved to display restraint and seek peaceful solutions through political dialogue and negotiations. In this context Mongolia welcomes the resumption of the peace process in the Middle East, which in our view should lead to a comprehensive, just and lasting peace in the region in compliance with the relevant Security Council resolutions and the principle of land for peace. Mongolia also duly appreciates the steps taken by the Security Council to address the emergency situation in East Timor and welcomes the cooperative approach of the Government of Indonesia regarding the establishment of a multinational force to halt and reverse the escalation of the human catastrophe there. The people of East Timor have overwhelmingly expressed themselves in favour of independence. My delegation stresses the importance of continuing the intra-Korean dialogue and the four-party talks for peace and stability on the Korean peninsula and in the Asia- Pacific region in general. We are concerned about the tension in South Asia and add our voice to that of the international community, which is calling on India and Pakistan to proceed to political dialogue and search for a peaceful solution to their dispute. Peace and stability are essential prerequisites for promoting economic development and social progress. That is why arms control and disarmament, particularly nuclear disarmament, remain at the top of the global agenda. Efforts to achieve further substantive progress in arms control and disarmament should be intensified. Agreements should be honoured and implemented. Nuclear tests, missile technology developments, concerns over the anti-ballistic missile treaty — all point to the urgent need for invigorating our activities in this field. International arms control efforts need to be comprehensive and include all aspects of arms and military technology. Strengthening of the nuclear non-proliferation regime stands out as one of the top priorities, due not only to the devastating nature of nuclear weapons and the enormous existing arsenal of them, but also to the negative effect they have on the disarmament process in general. Mongolia fully supports adopting multilateral norms restraining the development and possession of medium- range missiles and preventing their proliferation. We believe that progress on the START track will be helpful in advancing disarmament negotiations in all areas. Nuclear disarmament also calls for speedy agreement on banning fissile materials for nuclear-weapons purposes. Mongolia continues to attach great importance to establishing effective international arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons. My delegation welcomes the outcome of the 1999 sessions of the Disarmament Commission and of the Preparatory Committee for the year 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Mongolia attaches great importance to the role of the Review Conference in strengthening the international regime of nuclear non- proliferation. It also favours the earliest possible convening of the fourth special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament. Three years have elapsed since the adoption by the General Assembly of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test- Ban Treaty, which was a landmark event in the field of nuclear disarmament. Regrettably, this important international instrument has not yet come into force. Mongolia wishes to reiterate its call on those States that have not done so to sign and ratify the Treaty as soon as possible and thus contribute to the expeditious realization of its noble objectives. We sincerely hope that the forthcoming conference of the States that have ratified this Treaty will be conducive to taking the necessary measures to this end. It is our belief that all States, irrespective of their size and weight, can facilitate the attaining of the overall goal of nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament. That is why we believe that the establishment of nuclear- weapon-free zones in different parts of the world should be encouraged and supported. For its part, Mongolia is making efforts in this respect by declaring its territory a nuclear-weapon-free zone and taking the subsequent steps necessary to institutionalize its nuclear-weapon-free status. Last year the General Assembly adopted by consensus resolution 53/77 D on Mongolia’s international security and nuclear-weapon-free status. This was a 7 significant and encouraging event for Mongolia, testifying to the existence of broad international support for our objectives and efforts. The adoption of the resolution constitutes an important contribution not only to Mongolia’s security, but also — given Mongolia’s strategic location — to regional security. Implementation of the main provisions of the resolution — in cooperation with other Member countries, including the five nuclear-weapon States, and the United Nations — is one of the major objectives of our foreign policy. The Mongolian Government has recently circulated a memorandum on this issue as an official United Nations document, in which it pointed out, inter alia, that the Mongolian parliament is considering the adoption of legislation defining its nuclear-weapon-free status. Recently Mongolia hosted a United Nations regional disarmament meeting, one of the agenda items of which was the issue of Mongolia’s international security and nuclear-weapon-free status. The meeting proved to be useful in clarifying the pressing security issues, and it provided an opportunity for the first in-depth analysis and discussion of Mongolia’s nuclear-weapon-free status in the light of its external security. We believe that identifying and defining Mongolia’s nuclear-weapon-free status will contribute to enhancing predictability, stability and confidence in north-east Asia. My Government fully shares the aspirations to ban anti-personnel landmines and welcomes the entry into force of the Ottawa Convention. The illicit trafficking in small arms and light weapons is a matter of growing concern for the international community. Therefore Mongolia supports the convening of an international conference to consider this issue in 2001. Considering that only comprehensive arms-control and disarmament measures will be effective in ensuring international security, we, like many others, stand for prompt agreement on a new comprehensive and non- selective agenda for disarmament that will address the relevant issues in a balanced manner, taking into account, among other things, the need to prevent the development and use of new weapons as well as to demilitarize the global economy by reducing military budgets and shifting resources towards human-security programmes. Development issues continue to be the focus of attention of national Governments and international organizations and undoubtedly will be a major challenge in the forthcoming century. Globalization affects all States, though differently and unevenly. Many developing countries, particularly the least developed, not only fail to enjoy the benefits of globalization, but are being further marginalized. Therefore, the adverse effects of globalization should be addressed seriously and the United Nations should be more actively involved in the issue. The Asian economic and financial crisis has had significant socio-economic and security implications for the countries of the region. Though the situation is somehow stabilizing and the countries directly hit by the crisis are showing some signs of recovery, the international community should draw the necessary lessons from this crisis and consider ways and means of preventing such crises in the future. While appreciating the work done by the United Nations in the social and economic fields, my delegation would like to underline the importance of taking further effective measures to ensure the best utilization of the existing capacities and comparative advantages of the Organization. Therefore, it seems appropriate to stress the necessity of closer interaction and cooperation between the United Nations, the Bretton Woods institutions, the World Trade Organization (WTO) and other relevant international organizations. The financing of development represents a very sensitive and pressing issue that requires special attention on the part of the international community. Mongolia believes that the high-level intergovernmental meeting on financing for development to be held in 2001 will be timely in exploring the various options of promoting financial stability and development. In this respect, relieving the debt burden of the highly indebted developing countries would be a form of contribution to their development efforts. We also attach great importance to the South-South summit and the tenth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD X), to be held next year. Mongolia supports the universality of the World Trade Organization. The new round of multilateral trade negotiations should facilitate the integration of the developing countries into the world economy. The expansion of international cooperation for development should place particular emphasis on assisting the most vulnerable countries, which find themselves more and more marginalized and insecure. Unfavourable geographical location serves as a major impediment to the development efforts of landlocked developing countries. The problems of this group of States demand the increased attention and support of the international 8 community. The steps that could ease the hardships of these countries were recently examined in New York at the fourth Meeting of Governmental Experts from Landlocked and Transit Developing Countries and Representatives of Donor Countries and Financial and Development Institutions. Its outcome should be endorsed by the General Assembly. In North-East Asia, efforts are under way to conclude a subregional agreement on transit transportation as a follow-up to the decisions of the 1997 Ulan Bator meeting on transit transportation. The conclusion of this agreement will create a legal framework for facilitating transit trade not only within the subregion, but well beyond it. Sustainable development, environmental degradation, illicit drug trafficking, HIV/AIDS, organized crime and other transboundary problems should be adequately addressed at the national, regional and global levels. The “+5” review special sessions of the General Assembly held or scheduled to be held as follow-ups to the United Nations summit conferences are important not only for assessing the work done, but also for giving a fresh impetus to the implementation of their objectives at all levels. At the national level, Mongolia, in close partnership with the United Nations organizations and the non- governmental organizations, successfully organized the One-World Conference Series in 1998-1999. The aim of the six national conferences was to raise awareness at the grass-roots level of the commitments made at the global conferences and to ensure their integrated and coordinated follow-up. Mongolia is committed to the promotion and protection of human rights and supports the strengthening of the existing international instruments in this field. We believe that the approval at this session of the draft optional protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women would mark an important contribution to the protection and promotion of human rights and the dignity of women the world over. Continued gross violations of human rights make it imperative to speed up the establishment of the International Criminal Court. Mongolia highly appreciates and fully supports the efforts of the international community in this respect. Likewise, Mongolia joins other States in condemning terrorist acts that are taking the lives of an increasing number of innocent people in various parts of the world and supports every effort of Member States and of the international community as a whole to fight all forms of terrorism and strengthen the relevant international instruments. This year, the United Nations Decade of International Law is drawing to a close. The decade has been instrumental in drawing the international community's attention to the need for the codification and progressive development of international law. Today, international law is regulating many aspects of international relations. I agree with the Secretary-General that one of the greatest accomplishments of the twentieth century is the creation of an international code of human rights, to which the outgoing Decade has duly contributed. One of the practical results of the Decade was the adoption last year, on Mongolia's initiative, by the General Assembly of a set of principles and guidelines for international negotiations that could be useful in conducting negotiations to manage international relations, to peacefully settle disputes and to create new international norms of conduct for States. Fully conscious of the challenges that lie ahead, mankind still looks forward to the twenty-first century with great expectations and hope. I believe it is the earnest hope and keen desire of all the peoples of the world that the next century be far better in all respects, more progressive and prosperous, than the outgoing one. Where there is a will, there will surely be a way to achieve it. It is up to Member States to make the dream a reality. As the Secretary-General has underlined in his report, we can do it. I join other speakers who have already addressed the Assembly, Sir, in congratulating you on your well-deserved election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. Your unanimous election is a clear demonstration of the confidence this Assembly has in you and in your country, Namibia, with which my country enjoys very friendly and warm relations. It is especially significant that you come from Namibia, a country whose independence stands as a crowning moment in our Organization’s support for the right of peoples under colonial and foreign domination to self-determination and independence. I am confident that, given your experience and diplomatic skills, you will guide the work of this session successfully. I wish to take this opportunity to commend your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Didier Opertti of Uruguay, for the able manner in which he presided over the fifty-third session. In the same vein, I would like to place on record my country’s deepest appreciation of the work of the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, whose leadership is well respected and has given new impetus to the implementation of the United Nations reform programme. 19 As you rightly observed in your statement to this Assembly, Sir, the fifty-fourth session is the last to be convened in the twentieth century, a century that saw the creation of the United Nations from the ashes and ravages of the Second World War. Indeed, the world cannot but thank the founding fathers of our Organization for their foresight and wisdom. The relevance of this Organization has continued to grow since its inception, and is today exemplified by the universality of its membership, which has grown from the original 51 States in 1945 to the present 188 States. It goes without saying that since the membership of the United Nations has been growing, there should have been a continuous and corresponding process of reform of the decision-making structures and processes of the Organization in order to make the world body as representative as possible. It is a matter of considerable disappointment, however, that while reform of the administrative structures has, to a large degree, been accomplished, reform of the Security Council has not moved in tandem. As members are all aware, the creation of the United Nations was intended to strengthen international peace and security. Regrettably, a number of States continue to be threatened in our time by the dangerous proliferation of small arms and light weapons acquired by non-state entities. The continued proliferation and illegal transfer of small arms, among other factors, are responsible for the supply of the weapons being used in conflict situations across the African continent. I would therefore like to appeal to all Member States to support and strengthen the United Nations monitoring mechanisms on the transfer of these arms, particularly to non-state entities, in order to forestall this problem. Related to the problem of small arms is the question of landmines planted in large tracts of land in many countries, rendering unusable what otherwise is productive land. The impact of landmines has also had a telling toll on the provision of social services in the affected countries. I equally appeal to Member States, parties to the United Nations Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their Destruction, to implement the Maputo Declaration and programme of action, adopted in May this year. Only a strong and viable United Nations can constitute the much-needed viable vehicle to achieve this goal. My delegation is therefore deeply concerned about the continued deterioration of the financial situation of the United Nations. This situation is well known to all of us in this Assembly, as it has been the focus of our discussions for the past five years. Reform of the United Nations will not be implemented effectively if the financial situation is not seriously addressed. It is the inescapable duty of all of us to honour our obligations by ensuring that we pay our assessed contributions in full, on time and without conditions. This will enable the Organization to function smoothly and more effectively to execute the mandate we have entrusted to it. That among many other reasons is why we want to build strong economies in Africa to enable us shoulder our obligations. But external debt remains both a burden and a major impediment to the development process of many developing countries, including my country, Zambia. While we welcome the recent outcome of the Group of Eight meeting held in Cologne, Germany, on the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt (HIPC) Initiative, the measures for faster, broader and deeper debt relief, in our view, will not be sufficient to resolve the external debt problem of developing countries, especially the poorest among them, unless they are translated into real tangible, practical economic development programmes. It is the view of my Government that the Group of Eight target for debt relief of about $100 billion for the poorest countries in the world, the majority of which are in Africa, will have little effect on the problem unless the terms of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative are further revised in such a way as to make them more flexible and better tailored to suit the specific conditions of the targeted countries. Many of us in the developing countries understand that, in order to survive and contribute positively in the global markets, we need to make our economies more competitive. In this regard, many of our countries have embarked on the implementation of structural adjustment programmes. Our efforts are, however, hampered by the huge debt burden which takes away large amounts of resources from our countries through debt servicing. The declining levels of official development assistance and foreign direct investment to our countries, combined with the debt burden, have made economic reforms difficult and have slowed down the pace of economic growth and development. 20 The solution to this is for all concerned to approach the question of debt with open minds, with a view to finding a lasting solution to the problem. Added to that problem is the spread of HIV/AIDS. This is a matter of grave concern to my country and to Africa as a whole. This disease has continued to overwhelm the continent and to rob it of its meagre material and financial resources through devastation of its youthful and active population. It is therefore necessary for all humanity to rise to regard HIV/AIDS as a global problem and to act in unison. I therefore call upon the international community to redouble its efforts in fighting this scourge. Let me take this opportunity to report to this body that last week, from 12 to 16 September 1999, Zambia hosted the eleventh International Conference on AIDS and Sexually Transmitted Diseases in Africa. The holding of that Conference, which adopted a programme of action to fight the spread of this deadly disease in Africa in the twenty- first century, is among other things a demonstration of the African continent’s commitment to fight against this deadly disease. It is my hope that the United Nations will therefore embrace the outcome of the Conference and provide the necessary leadership in the fight against this pandemic, which threatens the very survival of humankind. The AIDS problem deserves our collective moral and political will to combat it successfully. Let me now turn to the phenomenon of the conflicts which have continued to bedevil Africa. In our own Southern African subregion, the conflicts in Angola and the Democratic Republic of the Congo are not only a threat to peace and security but have also been a major impediment to the economic development of the region. The resumption of hostilities in Angola in December 1998, after four years of relative peace following the signing of the Lusaka Protocol, is regrettable. As the Assembly is aware, this unfortunate state of affairs was occasioned by the intransigence of UNITA with regard to the implementation of the remaining tasks under the Lusaka Protocol. Every effort should therefore be made to bring an end to the hostilities. With regard to the Democratic Republic of Congo, the Assembly will recall that on 2 August 1998 a conflict erupted in that country. In response to this serious development, a series of efforts by regional heads of State and the Organization of African Unity (OAU) were immediately undertaken in search of a peaceful solution to the conflict. At the summit held at Victoria Falls, Zimbabwe, from 7 to 8 September 1998, the regional heads of State mandated me to chair the regional mediation effort, with the assistance of OAU. For a period of almost a year, I have, on behalf of our region, carried out exhaustive consultations inside and outside Zambia, and convened a number of meetings at the level of experts and Foreign Affairs and Defence Ministers. Let me state here that, right from the outset, regional leaders acknowledged the need to involve the Congolese rebel movement in the mediation process to ensure that the outcome would be respected by and acceptable to all. The process initially engaged the rebel movement through a proximity mechanism. Later, however, the rebels, who now included the Movement for the Liberation of the Congo (MLC), were invited to participate directly in the peace talks with all the other parties to the conflict. On 10 July 1999, our perseverance on the regional and Pan-African levels finally paid off when heads of State of all the six States parties to the conflict signed the Ceasefire Agreement in Lusaka. Unfortunately, a split in the Congolese Rally for Democracy (RCD) the previous May led to differences over who should sign the Agreement on behalf of the movement, which prevented them from appending their signature on that occasion. The other non-State party to the conflict, the MLC, also chose not to sign the Agreement until the differences within the RCD were resolved. In order to secure the signatures of the RCD and the MLC, I was mandated by the regional heads of State to carry out further consultations with the two movements. I am pleased to inform the Assembly that these efforts culminated in the signing of the Ceasefire Agreement by the MLC and the RCD on 1 August and 31 August 1999 respectively. Allow me at this juncture to place on record my sincere appreciation for the cooperation and assistance I received from all my colleagues in the region and other African leaders, the United Nations, OAU and the Southern African Development Community (SADC) in the execution of my mandate. The Ceasefire Agreement is an all-embracing document which addresses all aspects of the conflict, including the security concerns of all the countries neighbouring the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I wish to inform the Assembly that the implementation process of the Agreement has already 21 begun in earnest. Both the Political Committee and the Joint Military Commission met on 2 and 3 September 1999 in Lusaka with the participation of all members except the MLC, whose representatives were not able to travel to Lusaka because of logistical constraints. Among the issues considered by the meetings were: first, the formal installation of the Chairman of the Commission, Brigadier-General Rachid Lallali, from Algeria; the budget of the Joint Military Commission; its structures; and its programme of work. The representative of OAU briefed the meetings on OAU activities in support of the peace process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and the United Nations representative briefed them on the relationship that is expected to prevail between the United Nations and the Joint Military Commission. The Commission is scheduled to meet again on 10 October 1999. For peace to prevail in the Democratic Republic of Congo, United Nations support for the successful and comprehensive implementation of the Ceasefire Agreement is of paramount importance. For this reason, I wish to commend the Secretary-General for his timely and positive response in sending a team of military liaison personnel to the region. The United Nations must move more expeditiously than it has in the past if the job it does is to be commensurate with the tasks facing it in the field. To this end, I make an earnest appeal to the United Nations that the Organization, first, should authorize and support the deployment of a United Nations peacekeeping force in the Democratic Republic of the Congo with an appropriate mandate and, on an appropriate scale, based on the assessed needs on the ground; second, it should quickly dispatch the technical survey team to the Democratic Republic of the Congo in addition to the team of military liaison personnel which has already been sent to that country and some of its neighbours; third, it should make available adequate resources for the peacekeeping mission; fourth, it should extend necessary and adequate support to facilitate the process of internal dialogue within the Democratic Republic of the Congo; fifth, it should help in the mobilization of humanitarian assistance for the Congolese refugees and internally displaced persons and facilitate their return and resettlement; and sixth, it should assist with resources for the economic reconstruction of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I need not remind the Assembly of the solemn and important responsibility that the United Nations bears on behalf of us all in the maintenance of international peace and security. It is, therefore, incumbent upon it to ensure that peace prevails in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. To this end, it should learn from the lessons of the past and avoid costly mistakes. Time is of the essence. What is equally of the essence is the need to address the root causes of the poverty confronting third world countries. The world community must tackle those root causes with speed and urgency. This session of the General Assembly is meeting against a backdrop of growing tensions and armed conflicts, especially in the third world. These developments, coming towards the close of the twentieth century, are an indictment of the world’s global structures, which pose today, more than at any other time in history, a challenge to the very articles of faith upon which this organization was founded. The challenges cannot be wished away, nor can they be remedied by empty words. Global poverty can be eradicated only with a concerted global programme. Solving the issue of poverty would solve the problem of conflict and instability in the developing countries, and unless the world addresses these underlying causes of conflict, they will continue to be major sources of friction that will threaten and undermine international peace and security. Events in the Democratic Republic of Congo, in Kosovo and now in East Timor cannot but exert more pressure on the time and resources of the international community in general and particularly on the Security Council. But this is the mission of that world body: to attend to just such areas of conflict. Admittedly, these are the most perilous times Africa has ever faced. The multiple dangers of armed conflict and general political instability and the ever-growing danger posed by the HIV/AIDS pandemic can only call for concerted joint world efforts to help reduce the dangers that face Africa and the world in general. There are various ways the world can come to the aid of Africa, the most important of which are through aid and by creating conditions to make it possible for Africa to trade with the international community on terms acceptable to all. Africa is not asking for charity. No, Africa is asking for genuine trade. Africa is not asking for arms. No, Africa is asking for fair and equitable recompense for its labour and resources. Africa is not asking for pity, but genuine partnership based on mutual interests. 22 The relationship between poverty and political instability can no longer be in any way doubted. It is not good enough for the developed world to demand good governance — an indefinable term — while creating conditions of poverty by bad governance in the economic area. Justice must prevail in our economic relations in order to lay the foundation for political and social justice. A start should now be made by reviewing the inequitable conditions imposed by the World Trade Organization, which, if maintained, will only ensure continued marginalization of third world countries, condemning them to poverty and further instability. I am quite aware that this forum may not be the appropriate one for addressing these issues, but it definitely has the right people to address the issues I have raised. Therefore, my fervent prayer and hope is that we enter the new millennium with a renewed sense of unity of purpose to eradicate manifest global injustices and create a more equitable world where want will not create chaos and instability.  Allow me, on my own behalf and on behalf of my country, to express our congratulations to you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly for the current session. I am certain that, with a person of your qualities and experience at the helm, the Assembly will achieve the desired results. I wish to express my congratulations and gratitude to your predecessor, my friend Chancellor Didier Opertti of Uruguay, for his efficient work. I would also like to express my appreciation to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his dedication and his contribution to the renewal of the Organization, and to reiterate to him our confidence in his work and his leadership. This session of the General Assembly is the last one of the twentieth century. In the last hundred years, despite two disastrous global conflagrations, the nations of the world have come to the collective realization that all wars are civil wars, all killing is fratricidal, and that any minor conflict could, by escalating to the nuclear level, spark humankind’s final war. It has thus become clear that in order to survive and prosper, nations must be united in a basic agreement on the prevention of war and the protection of human rights, with the preservation of the human race as a first priority. Today, on the eve of the new millennium, after half a century marked by setbacks as well as by major successes, the United Nations must renew its mandate as a source of social and economic development and as a force for peace. Here I would prefer to avoid pro forma statements and present instead some concrete and explicit considerations, as we believe that this Organization must be the catalyst of a fair and realistic response to the challenges of our common destiny. No one could argue with the lofty principles underlying the Charter of the United Nations. Its unquestioned universality is one of the characteristics of the second half of the twentieth century. We agree that respecting the Charter must mean, above all else, applying those principles effectively, without interpreting them in ways that distort the purposes of the Charter. Our collective experience of over half a century has shown that the proper application of the Charter of the United Nations is indeed the best and safest way of achieving and consolidating the benefits of world peace. One of the Charter’s cherished principles is the obligation of States not to interfere, directly or indirectly, in the affairs of other States, as sovereign equality excludes 8 interference in the internal jurisdiction of other countries. It also implies complying, in good faith, with agreed commitments; observing the principles underlying them; and simultaneously respecting freedoms and human rights. This is a fundamental aspect of international affairs. The founders of the United Nations — and my grandfather was among them — were not mistaken in their belief that international peace is based on the sovereignty of Member States. Nor were they wrong when, ruling out the unilateral use of threats and force against the integrity and independence of States, they envisaged the use of effective collective means. Over the past year, we have worked with determination to put an end to the 40-year-old conflict in Colombia. We have reached agreement on an agenda for negotiations between our Government and the Colombia Revolutionary Armed Forces (FARC), the oldest and largest of the guerrilla groups. But as the world knows, we are negotiating in the midst of conflict, without benefit of a ceasefire, so the killings, kidnappings and attacks by the guerrillas and the “self-defence” groups are still taking a high human, social and economic toll. Achieving peace will require time, patience and optimism in order to successfully overcome the obstacles and doubts inherent in this process. When I last stood upon this rostrum, one year ago, I outlined a new direction for my country: to work to put an end to the corruption and violence in Colombia. I must admit that the past year has been difficult; the challenges we face are complex. The most important lesson we have learned is that peace is a primary goal for Colombia. Not peace at any price, but a genuine peace that strengthens our democracy, preserves territorial unity and gives every Colombian his or her rightful place in our common destiny. The quest for peace is not limited to dialogue and negotiation or to putting an end to armed conflict. Achieving peace requires much more than convincing the parties to sit at the negotiating table and reach compromises. It requires rebuilding a society and State in which the causes of conflict have been eradicated, which strengthens the State and helps to create the foundations of a stable and lasting peace. We Colombians have taken seriously the responsibility of achieving peace. As our recent history makes clear, international support is also necessary for us to face our challenges. Colombia needs financial support from multilateral organizations, from friendly countries and from non-governmental organizations to complement my Administration’s efforts. Such support is key for Colombia. To this end, we have formulated a strategic package for peace, economic prosperity and the strengthening of the State; it is called Plan Colombia. It synthesizes our economic, political and social views and aims to defend Colombia from the threat of drug trafficking, to strengthen our democratic institutions throughout the national territory, and to guarantee the security of our citizens and the full enjoyment of their rights and freedoms. For that reason, we are counting on the solidarity and contributions of the international community. Given the complexity of the process, it is clear that cooperation for peace must be carried out with the utmost caution. Careless actions can thwart these efforts. That is why we are increasingly concerned by the groundless rumours of alleged military interventions in Colombia, whose supposed purpose is to help my country in the struggle in which it is engaged. I would like from this rostrum solemnly to state that Colombia, true to the principles that govern our Republic, rejects any foreign interference or intervention in its internal affairs. We Colombians will work to overcome our own challenges. These are times of cooperation, not intervention. My Government also believes that the peace process is key in winning the fight against the worldwide problem of drugs. That immoral trade, which ruins lives, fuels violence, promotes corruption and destroys our ecosystem, must be opposed by all nations, by all available means. To that end, we must coordinate our efforts regarding production and consumption as well as the numerous links between these two evils. Over the past two decades, Colombia has been on the front lines of this battle, facing down the drug cartels and their campaigns of intimidation and terror. In the process we have lost many of our finest citizens, to whom we owe an immeasurable debt of gratitude. But as the major Colombian cartels are wiped out, the illegal drug trade has become a kind of hydra — more spread out, more international and less public, and therefore more difficult to defeat. To vanquish it requires a genuine partnership among the countries that consume and produce illegal drugs, underpinned by the principles of joint responsibility, reciprocity and fairness. 9 Increased efforts must also be made to confiscate from drug traffickers the money and property they have obtained from that illegal trade. In particular, we must fight the smuggling of industrial products to Colombia, which serves to launder drug money and ends up suffocating Colombia’s industries. We must also halt the flow of precursor chemicals needed for the production of narcotics. And multinational corporations that benefit in one way or another should be held accountable for not taking the necessary precautions to prevent their helping and participating in drug trafficking through negligence. There will be no peace in Colombia as long as the greedy businesses of drug trafficking and the black market in weapons continue supplying irregular groups. We are very concerned about the significant amounts of various types of weapons illegally entering Colombian territory. There is an urgent, inescapable need for all Governments to cooperate to control and halt this unacceptable traffic in death and destruction. For the last two years, since the first shock wave of the so-called Asian crisis, the economy has been suffering the difficulties of instability and slow-down. This crisis has shown that no State, however powerful, is immune, and that the poor countries have suffered the most from its consequences. The hypothesis that capital flows would promote accelerated and sustained economic growth has faded in the light of the facts. We have seen the growth of enormous sums of virtual money, whose uncontrolled movements have brought economic turbulence, unemployment, more poverty and even, in some cases, political instability. Latin America has become the most recent victim of the crisis. We must, therefore, give the most serious consideration and priority to the design of a new financial structure. This will be viable and efficient only if it involves increased resources from multilateral financial institutions. It must also involve support mechanisms to lessen the social impact of structural adjustment programmes, especially those affecting the most vulnerable. The Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, said so when he spoke about the need to respect essential values to give a human face to the global market. At the end of the twentieth century, we are moving into an era of powerful changes, accompanied by worrisome tensions. Globalization is deepening, but it coexists with forces that encourage fragmentation. As the peace processes move forward in many regions, new violence explodes in others. Wealth is expanding to unprecedented levels, but alienation and poverty persist. The technological means that promote interdependence and development also support networks of organized crime, drug trafficking, money laundering, terrorism and arms trafficking. New struggles and conflicts have appeared, some using means for which the international community does not seem to be prepared. Global confrontation is a thing of the past, as are the old plots resulting from strife and spheres of influence. These are times to think in terms of a real community of nations, as competing partners, but mainly as partners that share a common destiny. There is, nevertheless, a perception that not everything is going well. The world is still not satisfied with itself. There are forces of destabilization and imbalance which put at risk the achievements made to date. Many millions still suffer from malnutrition, illiteracy, disease and exclusion. We must, therefore, revitalize international cooperation to make the best of globalization, to distribute its benefits more fairly so that development and peace can complement each other efficiently and productively. Revitalizing cooperation is not an option; it is a duty. After over five decades of existence, the United Nations has partially fulfilled its promise. It has been able to avoid the horrors of a new world holocaust. But the anticipated order, wherein the United Nations would guarantee peace, security and development for all peoples, remains to be built. After the progress achieved with the Secretary- General’s reform proposals, we see with great concern that the pace of change has slowed. Reform must be a continuing process. The United Nations must continue adapting ever more effectively to new conditions and realities. But this cannot simply take a form that is a product of the post-cold-war era. We need a concerted will. From various directions there are calls for the Security Council to become more effective, to consult the spirit of the Charter and to balance the realities of world power with the just aspirations of those peoples which are least strong. The system of collective security is one of the cornerstones of multilateralism. It is the rational response to interventionist or isolationist tendencies, the maximum guarantee of the principles to which we all adhere. Colombia reiterates its confidence in these principles of 10 collective security and its commitment to work, decisively, with the different sectors of the international community in order to invigorate the capacity of the Security Council to respond to problems and crises in all regions. That is why my country has submitted its candidature for a seat on the Council for the period 2001-2002. The time for simple reform intentions is past. With the arrival of the new millennium, the historic moment has come to begin anew real negotiations in the different institutions. We need to find genuinely universal paradigms to ensure that multilateralism leads to the globalization of solidarity. It is necessary to leave behind generalities or fragmented criteria in order to find a comprehensive vision of the United Nations system. A great effort of coordination is required between these institutions and the new international actors, including non-governmental organizations, and the promotion of a real association within a globalized but fairer system. The twentieth century has demonstrated that, alongside the horror and cruelty, there has prevailed what was once considered utopian: the United Nations. Our paramount commitment must be to the human condition, the ethics and culture of peoples, solidarity and respect for others, regardless of ethnic, ideological, religious or any other considerations. We cannot give in until the day when the freedom and democracy proclaimed in our documents have become a universal reality. When we have liberated the human spirit so that it may fully develop its enormous potential, we will have laid the foundations of a world truly at peace. Colombia, amidst its difficulties and problems, does not want to be, nor will it be, simply a witness to the changes of these times. Colombia is not a military or economic power. Nonetheless, it is respected by the community of nations for its unlimited and unconditional support for the norms and principles of international law. We offer our contribution — modest, but part of the common effort — to a better future for all mankind.   I would like at the outset, Sir, to express the warm congratulations of my delegation and of my country on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly. You are one of sisterly Namibia's freedom fighters, and one of Africa's faithful sons. Your unanimous election to your important post and your country's simultaneous membership of the Security Council are strong evidence of the respect and appreciation that Namibia enjoys in the eyes of the entire international community. In the Security Council, Namibia's notable positions on important international issues also irrefutably demonstrate Namibia's unremitting struggle for freedom, right, sovereignty and justice — a struggle now waged by means different from those that Namibia used during its independence struggle. I also commend your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Didier Opertti, for his successful guidance of the previous session. I wish also to welcome the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga as new Members of the United Nations. The Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, deserves our deepest appreciation for his continued efforts to make this Organization freer and less submissive to the domination and control of the super- Powers of this critical historical era. Over the past several decades, the United Nations has made considerable achievements, the most notable of which has perhaps been its role in the elimination of direct colonialism and in the attainment of independence by many countries which today occupy their proper place as States Members of this Organization. The world has witnessed fundamental changes, which imperatively call for serious reform of the United Nations and its basic structures, so that the Organization can truly perform its role as an umbrella, a haven and a reference-point for all. Colonialist soldiers have left the harbours and the airports, but with the collapse of international equilibrium, colonialists are reappearing in new guises, with new means and with both new and old approaches. Colonialism is coming back in the guise of the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, other financial institutions, economic cartels, and, when necessary, military alliances. It is coming back in the guise of international conventions imposed through so- called international legitimacy, which is really nothing more than an expression of higher policies dictated through temptation or coercion. Colonialism is coming back in the guise of globalization, which is but a means of ensuring and consolidating dependence in terms of the economy, politics, culture and even social values. Colonialism is also returning through direct armed invasion, when necessary, as we have recently witnessed. It is also returning through bilateral sanctions policies enforced through so-called international legitimacy and through selective disarmament or rearmament. Colonialism is returning through the elimination — not the mere violation — of State sovereignty. The slogan that is now much in vogue, “humanitarian intervention”, will help erode the little that remains of State sovereignty. That pretext has been completely exposed. If the new Colonialists understood the real meaning of humanity, they would not be producing and stockpiling all kinds of weapons of mass destruction or committing aggression against others. Nor would they be imposing sanctions on countries, as they continue to do, with the aim of 16 humiliating, starving and killing their peoples. We declare our absolute rejection of intervention under any slogan. This is the world following the collapse of international equilibrium: the strong and the rich are becoming stronger and richer, and the weak and the poor are becoming weaker, poorer and more deprived. In the face of these fundamental changes, it has become necessary, indeed urgently imperative, that the United Nations should undergo a transformation that would enable it to respond to its new tasks as an umbrella, a haven and a reference-point for all. This change will not happen by itself, nor will the powerful initiate it. The weaker nations can only resort to uniting their limitless efforts, strengths and potentials to bring about and impose such change. My country believes that this desired change must achieve the following: First, the authority for decision-making in the United Nations must rest with the General Assembly, where Member States enjoy equal sovereignty. Secondly, the Security Council must become an executive instrument or authority for the General Assembly. Thirdly, there must be a radical revision of Security Council membership that will be equitable to all under- represented regions, particularly in the southern hemisphere: Africa, Asia and South America. Fourthly, the Security Council's rules of procedures must be issued by the General Assembly, which represents the international community. Otherwise, it will be meaningless to say that the Security Council works on behalf of the international community. Quite simply put, the majority of the members of the international community did not participate in the formulation of the Charter. A very small number of the United Nations Members formulated it over half a century ago. Fifthly, all privileges resulting from the victories and defeats of World War II must be abolished, particularly the privilege of veto, and any other privileges that prevent this most important international Organization from becoming truly democratic. Despite the crises, conflicts and wars that ravage the African continent, this year has witnessed solutions for some of them, prospects for several others and initiatives for the solution of the remaining conflicts. As we express our satisfaction with this trend, we wish to recall, as we have always done, that African wars and conflicts are the product of the division of Africa by the colonial Powers, which must assume full responsibility for all the damages inflicted upon the continent, including an apology and full compensation to its peoples. The solutions reached for many African conflicts were a result of the enormous efforts of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), subregional organizations, several African States and some African leaders who truly care about Africa's security, stability and development. Libya has effectively supported and participated in these initiatives, and will continue to do so, in close cooperation with the OAU, all other concerned countries and the Secretary-General of the United Nations. As a contribution to the efforts made to tackle the situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo and the Great Lakes region, Libya has succeeded in convening a number of meetings, for heads of State of the region, in Sirte, Libya, where they reached the Sirte Agreement, later completed and signed in Lusaka, which is aimed at putting an end to the conflict in the area. In Somalia, Libya continues its efforts, in coordination with all concerned countries and groups in conflict, for national reconciliation in that forgotten country. We hope that these efforts will result in the reunification and stability of Somalia. Libya has also contributed to bringing peace to Sierra Leone and stability to Guinea-Bissau, as well as contributing to the efforts undertaken by the OAU to put an end to the dispute between brothers in Ethiopia and Eritrea, in the Horn of Africa. A Libyan envoy was sent there to help end the war and bring peace to those two brotherly countries. Africa's plights are not confined to wars and conflicts, but also include several economic and social problems: 44 per cent of Africans live in abject poverty; AIDS threatens the entire African population; malaria and other epidemic diseases still threaten the lives of millions in Africa. In respect of the latter, my country calls for the speedy adoption and implementation of an international plan to eradicate these diseases in Africa before it becomes impossible to contain and eliminate them. Attempts by African states to confront and solve these problems are hampered by the heavy debts of the continent, which reached $350 billion in 1998, equalling 300 per cent of the value of African exports and services. The time has come to cancel African debts and to deal with this question on the basis of new and equitable principles. 17 In order to confront these challenges and to usher a strong and united Africa into the new century, our brother Colonel Muammar Al-Qadhafi extended an invitation to his brothers, the leaders of Africa, to convene an extraordinary summit in Sirte, Libya, from 8 to 9 September 1999. Their positive response had been unprecedented since the establishment of the OAU. They all participated in the summit, with the exception of Somalia, which has no central government. Thirty-nine heads of State and four Prime Ministers were at the forefront of the participants. Some of the founding fathers of the Organization of African Unity were also at the summit, as well as former OAU Secretaries-General. The summit, which is a historic event in its own right, concluded with the adoption of the Sirte Declaration establishing an African Union and its political, economic and legislative institutions. Africa is now determined, more than ever before, to surmount all the negative aspects of its present realities and to move forward towards its future, full of hopes and aspirations, counting basically on its own resources, capabilities and the endeavours of its sons. The Palestinian issue has not been settled yet, simply because the essence of the problem is being ignored: Palestine is still occupied. Its people are still scattered all over the globe as refugees, replaced by immigrants from all over the world. Unless an end is put to all this, and unless the Palestinian people are given their right to return to their homeland, neither peace nor security will be achieved in the Arab East region. The occupation of the Syrian Golan Heights must also be totally ended, as well as the occupation of southern Lebanon, in implementation of Security Council resolution 425 (1978). We demand the immediate lifting of sanctions imposed on Iraq, and we emphasize the importance of preserving its unity and territorial integrity, respect for its sovereignty, non-intervention in its internal affairs and ending the ongoing military aggression against it. In order for the world to live in peace and security, it must be freed from the nuclear horror that threatens all peoples. Elimination of nuclear arsenals and all other weapons of mass destruction must have priority, and all efforts to achieve disarmament, at both regional and international levels, must be concentrated on realizing this goal. Unless those who currently possess such weapons get rid of them, there will always be those who strive to possess them. Efforts aimed at the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons will be futile unless the nuclear Powers take practical steps that would demonstrate their serious commitment to the undertakings they have made. These two tracks must move together or stop together. We have no other choice. The Arab region is subject to the threat of nuclear weapons possessed by Tel Aviv. These weapons constitute a permanent threat to the people of the region and to neighbouring areas, and unless these weapons are eliminated, all efforts to prevent their proliferation in the region will be unsuccessful. Libya is the southern Mediterranean country with the longest coast. Therefore, we have a vital interest in making the Mediterranean a Sea of peace and cooperation for the benefit of all peoples of this basin. This goal can be achieved only if foreign military bases and fleets are removed from the area, as they are a source of constant danger to all Mediterranean peoples. Several countries, including my own, are still trying to overcome the thorny problem of landmines that were planted in by the belligerent Powers during the World Wars. These landmines have caused damage, losses and tragedies of untold magnitude, both human and material. Vast areas of Libya are covered by millions of land mines deployed by the Allies and the Axis Powers during the Second World War. We hold those Powers responsible for what they have inflicted upon our people as a result of these landmines, and we reiterate our demand that the States responsible implement the resolutions of the General Assembly adopted in this regard, through the payment of compensation to the affected countries and peoples and the removal of these landmines. The revolution of 1969 allowed Libya to achieve its true and complete independence. By driving the foreign military forces and bases from its soil, my country liberated its policies and decision-making capabilities. For these reasons, Libya has since then been the target of ongoing hostile media campaigns aimed at distorting our policies and tarnishing our international image. Our support for and solidarity with liberation movements have been portrayed as support for terrorism. Our standing by the side of the oppressed and the downtrodden and our assistance to help them liberate their countries and their resources and defend their own interests have been considered interference in the internal affairs of others. There have also been clandestine campaigns that have sought to assassinate political leaders, in particular the leader of our revolution, Colonel Muammar Al-Qadhafi, who has been targeted several times. Both air force and naval campaigns have targeted Libya’s 18 territorial waters and the main cities of Tripoli and Benghazi. As a result, dozens of martyrs were killed and many times as many were wounded — in addition to extensive loss of and damage to property. The main objective of these raids was once again to murder our brother Muammar Al-Qadhafi, whose home, office and tent were destroyed during these raids. Economic pressure has been used against Libya. Unilateral boycotts and embargoes were followed by bilateral and collective embargoes, then by the internationalization of these embargoes after the Security Council had become hostage to the will of the powerful since the collapse of the international balance of power. This was particularly the case during the first years of the “era of frenzy”, as Mr. Kofi Annan called it in a report to the General Assembly. Why and how was the international “boycott” — as opposed to international “sanctions” — imposed? I call it a boycott and not sanctions because a sanction is a form of punishment for a definitively proven action, a punishment decreed after a final sentence has been pronounced by a competent court that has the jurisdiction to condemn the action in question. But no proof or evidence was presented to the Security Council that Libya, or even the two Libyan suspects, had actually committed any action that led to the crash of Pan Am flight 103 over the Scottish town of Lockerbie. Nevertheless, the sanctions resolutions were issued in the name of so-called international legitimacy, a legitimacy that is both wrong and wronged. This is wrong because resolutions are adopted in the name of the Security Council; the Security Council is wronged because it is forced to issue resolutions under political and economic pressures and threats. The relevant resolutions were adopted on the basis of suspicions regarding just two Libyan citizens — yet the sanctions targeted the entire population of Libya. This was a form of collective punishment against an entire people on the basis of a mere suspicion that had not been fully investigated. This punishment was imposed without a trial and obviously without any conviction in a court of law. So much indeed for legitimacy. In fact, how legitimate could this be during the years of frenzy? The conclusions — or cinematic fantasies — regarding the suspicions were refuted at the time. Malta conducted an official investigation, the findings of which demonstrated that not one unaccompanied suitcase was loaded onto the flight from Malta to Frankfurt. For their part, the Frankfurt authorities investigated the matter and reached the conclusion that not one unaccompanied suitcase had arrived at their airport from Malta, nor had left it for London. What then, is the origin or basis of this suspicion? I would like to briefly remind the Assembly that from the first moment that the accusation was broadcast by the media, and before the matter was even presented to the Security Council, Libya had done the following. First, we had requested the other party to provide the judiciary authorities in Libya with its findings so that these authorities could commence their investigations accordingly. Alternatively, we proposed that that party send investigators to Libya to participate in the investigation. We proposed sending Libyan judges to review the case file. We also proposed that an investigation be conducted by a neutral party or parties, or by the United Nations. All these requests were refused. Secondly, we requested the application of article 14 of the Montreal Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Civil Aviation or the assignment of this matter to the International Court of Justice. All these requests and proposals were also refused. Then, on 27 February 1998, the International Court of Justice issued two rulings in favour of Libya, confirming its jurisdiction over the case under the Montreal Convention. The Non-Aligned Movement — at a meeting of its Foreign Ministers in Cartagena, Colombia, from 18 to 20 May 1998 — made a recommendation to the upcoming Non-Aligned Movement Summit in Durban, South Africa, that the sanctions imposed on Libya be lifted if the other party to the dispute did not agree to suspend the sanctions at the next review of the Security Council, which had been set for July 1998. At the Organization of African Unity summit in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, held on 10 June 1998, that organization declared that its members would no longer comply with the Security Council sanctions if the other party continued to reject any of the options proposed by international organizations to resolve the conflict. Faced with all these developments, the other party had only two options left: either to accept a trial in a third country, or for the international community to immediately lift the sanctions without having recourse to the Security Council. Such a situation would have threatened the authority of the Security Council — or, more accurately, it would have threatened the authority of those who influence the Security Council — this latter being in the Council’s view — a much more serious matter. 19 A further legal complication was the possibility that the General Assembly would be presented with a constitutional dilemma, especially after the issuance of the two rulings of the International Court of Justice — the highest judicial institution of the United Nations. It was the Security Council versus the International Court of Justice. We could present the case to the General Assembly at any time. The other party therefore had no option, and reluctantly, accepted, hoping to gain time. But then it returned to its main objective vis-à-vis Libya. It declared its acceptance of a trial in a third country and presented, as always, a badly written draft resolution to the Security Council, along with other draft resolutions imposed on the Council by means that are well known to all, especially to the Council’s members. Once again, most Security Council members supported Libya, and once again the international community reiterated its strong support for Libya in letters that reflected the will of the overwhelming majority of the international community. These letters are all official documents of the Security Council. But in all fairness, and to state the truth, from which we have never deviated, I will say that the Government of the United Kingdom has reacted seriously to the Libyan proposal, expressing its willingness to refer the whole question to none other than a Scottish court sitting in the Netherlands. We state the truth in our own interest and in the interest of others. The rest is well known to all delegations. On 5 April 1999, the two suspects arrived of their own free will in the Netherlands, accompanied by Mr. Hans Corell, the Under-Secretary-General for Legal Affairs. But has the other party fulfilled its obligations? Has it shown respect for the resolutions of the Security Council? The answer is no. In fact, the other party prevented the adoption of a resolution by the Security Council to suspend the sanctions and agreed only to a press release. Once again, under pressure from the Non-Aligned Movement members of the Security Council and from the other Council members, and after several letters were submitted by the States members of the Non-Aligned Movement, the Organization of African Unity, the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the Arab League to the Security Council and to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the other party accepted, unwillingly, the text of a presidential statement for the suspension of the embargo. Three months after the sanctions were suspended, on 30 June 1999, the Secretary-General submitted a report to the Security Council in document S/1999/726 pursuant to paragraph 16 of resolution 883 (1993) and paragraph 8 of resolution 1192 (1998), which requested him to report to the Security Council within 90 days on compliance by the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya with the remaining provisions of resolutions 731 (1992) and 748 (1992). On 9 July 1999, the Security Council considered the Secretary-General's report, but was unable to adopt a resolution that would have lifted the sanctions imposed on Libya, because of the intransigence of one State, the United States, which is a party to the dispute. That State even threatened to use the veto. This, in fact, can only be seen as reneging on previous commitments made by the Security Council in paragraph 16 of its resolution 883 (1993) and paragraph 8 of its resolution 1192 (1998). Moreover, it ignores the Secretary-General's report, whose contents lead to only one conclusion: that Libya has fulfilled all its obligations under Security Council resolutions. What justification, if any, does the United States have for using the veto to prevent the Security Council from adopting a resolution to lift the unjust sanctions on Libya? First, the United States has reiterated the accusation it has made before and since the fabrication of the Lockerbie case: that Libya supports terrorism. The United States has been repeating that allegation ever since we evicted it from Libya's military bases and harbours, ended its monopoly on our oil, and liberated our country from colonialism. That is why the United States still accuses us of terrorism. The Secretary-General's report categorically refutes this claim. Members may refer to paragraphs 29 to 34 of the report and to other pages in order to ascertain the baseless nature of this accusation. Moreover, one can also cite reports issued by the American State Department and statements made by present and former officials of American Administrations that all point to the fact that such claims can no longer be made. Libya is a victim of American terrorism, not vice versa. It is the United States of America that committed all the acts of aggression that we have previously referred to. It is the United States that sheltered, financed, trained and armed terrorists and transported them to Libya to commit acts of terrorism in 1984 and afterwards. Those who continue to shelter terrorists wanted by other countries are not in a position to refer to others by descriptions that apply only to themselves. Libya has stood by liberation movements, particularly in Africa. This is a legitimate cause, not support for terrorism. 20 The second justification is that Libya has to cooperate with the Scottish court in the Netherlands. This is meaningless, since Libya has undertaken to cooperate with the court, as the Secretary-General's report has shown. Furthermore, this matter has been discussed by the judiciary authorities of the three countries in the presence of Mr. Corell. The Security Council, in paragraph 4 of its resolution 1192 (1998), decided that all States, not Libya alone, shall cooperate with the court. The text is available; we can look it up if there is any doubt. Since all parties are called upon to cooperate, how can this argument be used to prevent the Security Council from acting in accordance with its obligations by lifting the embargo on Libya? This matter falls under the competence of the International Court of Justice and the Scottish court, with which our judiciary authorities are cooperating. It is blatant interference when a member of the Security Council tries to influence the work of these courts, which are independent institutions that deserve the respect not only of Libya, but of all others as well. The third justification is even harder to swallow. It is the demand that Libya compensate the families of the victims. How can this be done when the court has yet to sit? It will not hold its first session until 4 February 2000 and the laws state that the suspect is innocent until proven guilty. When we raised this issue, it was suggested that we settle out of court. Why out of court? Why then is the court in the Netherlands? We were told that these are American laws. American laws apply to United States citizens, not to Libyan citizens. The Security Council and the General Assembly reiterated last year and the year before that national laws cannot be applied beyond national borders. This logic of power should be used only to uphold the law. At the joint meeting, the Secretary-General himself was surprised to hear this proposal before the court was in session. They reiterated it. He asked them how it could be done. They said that the court would hand down a sentence. He pointed out that it had not yet done so and that, if it did, Libya would be committed to respecting it. How could they possibly make such a request when the suspects have not been found guilty? We are trying to prove their innocence and our country's. How can we be asked to pay compensation when a ruling has not yet been issued? This is yet another way of interfering in the internal affairs of the Scottish court sitting in the Netherlands. Who will compensate Libya for the damages it has sustained in excess of $70 billion after seven years of unjustified sanctions and embargoes? Who will compensate us? The United Nations? Will the Member States compensate Libya for something they have not done? Let us be logical and work within the law on the basic principles of justice. Since we have agreed to the establishment of the court, let us allow the court to carry out its responsibilities. Libya's fulfilment of its obligations has also been underlined in the Secretary-General's report, in the decisions of the thirty-fifth African Summit held in Algeria last July, in the decisions of the Arab League this September and in the decisions of the Ministerial Council of the Non-Aligned Movement a week ago. All these decisions call for the immediate and complete lifting of the sanctions. In this, they join the overwhelming majority of the international community. Preventing the Security Council from adopting an overdue resolution lifting sanctions that should not have been imposed in the first place will threaten the Council's credibility and ability to honour its obligations. It will also reinforce the Security Council's failure to act in compliance with the will of the majority of the United Nations Member States and in accordance with the principles and purposes of the United Nations Charter, as stated in Article 24. The will of one State cannot represent the will of the entire international community. My country requests one thing: that the Security Council speedily adopt a decision lifting all the sanctions imposed on Libya. We demand that the case not be allowed to be politicized after the matter has taken its legal course. The case should be left entirely to the Scottish court in the Netherlands, without any interference from any political entity, including the Security Council. If the Security Council continues to be prevented from adopting such a decision, my country will take all necessary steps to guarantee fairness, including raising a constitutional dilemma between the highest and most important judiciary organ, the International Court of Justice, and the Security Council. We will raise it before the General Assembly in order to have a decision taken.   I bring to you, Mr. President, to Secretary-General Kofi Annan and to all representatives the greetings and best wishes of His Majesty King Birendra and of the Government and people of Nepal. Your election is testimony to the wide recognition of your great country's contribution to the cause of freedom of the peoples and to the work of the United Nations. Please accept our congratulations and pledge of support. Our appreciation goes also to your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, for the wise manner in which he conducted the business of the fifty-third session of the General Assembly. The massive loss of life and property and the untold suffering caused by the recent earthquakes to the peoples of Turkey, Greece and Taiwan have touched the hearts of the Nepalese people. Indeed, our hearts go out to the hundreds of thousands of peoples across the globe who have suffered from both natural and man-made disasters. Nepal wholeheartedly welcomes Kiribati, Nauru and Tonga as new Members of the United Nations. Their admission has enriched the world Organization and enhanced its universality. Following the restoration of the multi-party political system in Nepal, I had the unique privilege of steering the country at a turning point of history as its Prime Minister, entrusted with the twin responsibilities of overseeing the formulation of a new democratic constitution of the Kingdom and the holding of free, fair and peaceful general elections at the beginning of the last decade of this century. With the people's trust and guidance, the cooperation of all political parties and the support of His Majesty the King, and above all with God's will, those responsibilities were fully discharged. The Constitution of the Kingdom of Nepal not only guarantees the fundamental human rights of the people but also the independence of the judiciary. It defines and protects the basic tenets of parliamentary democracy in Nepal, and it identifies the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations as the fundamental plank of the foreign policy of the country. Standing today before this Assembly of nations, I wish to reaffirm Nepal's commitment to the principles and objectives of the United Nations and to share, in brief, our hopes, aspirations and views. Last year we observed the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, a milestone in human history. The fiftieth anniversary of another historical milestone — the Geneva Conventions of 1949 — this year provides the international community with another opportunity to reiterate its deepening commitment to democracy, human rights and improved living conditions for peoples. At the national level, we regard the protection and promotion of human rights as a sine qua non for the all-round development of the people. Democracy and development, I believe, are two sides of the same coin, hard to guarantee and secure except in a 13 state of peace and stability under a system of participatory good governance. Nepal is a nation with a young democratic setup and an ever-deepening commitment to human rights and the all- round development of the people, who are beset with the numerous unique and onerous challenges characteristic of a small land-locked and least developed country with difficult Himalayan and mountainous terrains and the greatest of contemporary problems — poverty. At no point in history have we witnessed poverty eating up so systematically the spiritual richness of peoples in many countries, including Nepal — the land of the Buddha. Nepal's development efforts are driven by an overriding objective of poverty eradication through employment and income generation, social mobilization and the strengthening of social capital within a democratic values-based system. The country has almost unlimited potential for hydropower development and tourism, and we have created legislative conditions for the participation of foreign investors in these sectors as well as in other trade and services-generating sectors in Nepal. Our commitment to sustainable development has been translated into several measures aimed at the preservation of the environment and ecological balance, including the earmarking of a large part of our land area for the development of wildlife parks and nature reserves. I want at this stage to reiterate our commitment to the development of Lumbini — the birthplace of the Buddha — as an enduring peace monument, a holy shrine for pilgrimage and one of the world's greatest cultural heritages. I am disheartened that despite several world summits, conferences and international commitments, absolute poverty, hunger, disease, illiteracy and hopelessness should still remain the lot of the bulk of the world's population. One billion adults, the majority of them women, cannot read or write. Almost a billion people are underfed and malnourished, and a similar number have no access to clean water, shelter or health care. Many millions die before they reach the age of 40. Equally threatening is the ever-widening gap between the haves and the have-nots. The conclusion of this year's Human Development Report is the unbelievable polarization between peoples and countries, which the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) characterized as grotesque and dangerous. The one fifth of the world's population in the highest-income countries commands 86 per cent of world gross domestic product and 82 per cent of world export markets, while the bottom fifth, in the poorest countries has just 1 per cent of both categories. How long can the world go on like this, with a small part of its people living in freedom and prosperity while the larger segment is living in fetters under abject conditions, before calamity engulfs us all? A few years ago, at the request of the heads of State or Government of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation, I undertook the task of chairing the Independent South Asian Commission on Poverty Alleviation as part of a regional endeavour to work out regional strategies and programmes of action for the eradication of poverty from South Asia. My own experience as Chairman of that Commission leads me to the inescapable conclusion that the goal of poverty eradication requires, among other things, sustained political will and commitment of the highest order, an integrated and coordinated approach and decisive national actions, with the participation of all, including grass-roots organizations and civil society, backed by enhanced international development cooperation. But the fast-dwindling official development assistance flows and ever-increasing resource constraints of United Nations development agencies, such as the United Nations Development Programme, make our task of poverty eradication and development harder and harder with each passing year. This is particularly true in the case of least developed and landlocked countries such as Nepal. While we deeply appreciate the help of our development partners, we urge developed countries, which are undoubtedly in a position to do so, to generously increase the volume of their official development assistance so as to attain the target set by this Assembly. Reallocation of official development assistance in favour of the less developed countries is another area which deserves attention. As we are a democratic nation, women — who make up half of every country's population — are the backbone of Nepalese society. We can hardly remain oblivious to the urgent need for their empowerment and advancement. We have made legislative arrangements to guarantee their participation in the national polity by reserving exclusively for them as many as 40,000 seats in the local elected bodies. In the three general elections since 1991, the number of women parliamentarians has steadily gone up. But we are aiming for more. Their literacy rate is also improving. The Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women, to which Nepal recently presented its country report, has acknowledged the progress made in raising the status of 14 women in general and in increasing understanding of gender issues and the human rights of women among the Nepalese population. We know we have to do a lot more, and I am personally committed to this. We are equally committed to the protection and promotion of the rights of the child as well as the rights and interests of other vulnerable and disadvantaged sections of society. In short, we have before us a large agenda for nation-building, for the consolidation of gains in democracy and human rights and for living up to our international commitment to peace, cooperation and development in the world. We are dealing with the agenda with a sense of purpose and commitment, although there are several obvious difficulties, including the economic, social, environmental and political problems created by 100,000 refugees from Bhutan. We seek the continued support and understanding of the international community in the creation of an environment conducive to the resolution of this problem through bilateral negotiations. We also seek its support for their sustenance until they are repatriated. I wish to place on record our appreciation of and gratitude to Secretary-General Kofi Annan, the world's foremost public servant, for his efforts and successes in defusing tensions around the world and solving many seemingly intractable problems, such as those of Libya and the popular consultation in East Timor. I am impressed with his impassioned call for the transition from a culture of reaction to a culture of prevention in the United Nations. He has drawn our attention to the benefits and risks provided by globalization and to the need for strengthened international cooperation to offset the vulnerability of many countries, particularly the least developed and landlocked ones, and the marginalization of Africa. We have noted his emphasis on the maintenance of international peace and security as the primary responsibility of the Security Council. We thank him also for his dedication to comprehensive United Nations reform and for his package of reform proposals. Reform is a continuing process. It will be neither meaningful nor complete unless we arrive at a ratifiable global consensus on the functioning and composition of a reformed Security Council. The statement of the Foreign Ministers of the five permanent members that any attempt to restrict or curtail their veto rights would not be conducive to the reform process is a matter of deep disappointment. Nepal supports the common position evolved at the Durban Summit of the Non-Aligned Movement on the question of Security Council reform. We are also firm in our view that no reform measure should curtail the authority of the General Assembly, which is the nearest thing to a world parliament. The United Nations cannot continue to function effectively without a fair and sound financial base. Assessed dues must be paid in full and on time. Peacekeeping is a unique and most useful instrument for the United Nations in the maintenance of international peace and security. Nepal has participated in United Nations peacekeeping for over 40 years in all parts of the world. Some 35,000 of our troops and 800 of our police have served with many peacekeeping operations, 39 having been martyred and several more wounded in the line of duty. It is the firm policy of Nepal not only to maintain but also to increase our contribution to United Nations peacekeeping. It is disappointing that for three years in a row the principal United Nations forum for disarmament negotiations, the Conference on Disarmament, has not been able to agree on an agenda of work. Some important arms control and disarmament measures have been adopted without reference to the Conference on Disarmament. As host to the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific, Nepal's commitment to general and complete disarmament, including total nuclear disarmament, remains undiluted. In the summer months of this year, South Asia witnessed a flare-up between two of our close neighbours. Disquieting because it broke a peace that had lasted for nearly three decades, it also exposed the myth fostered in a bygone era that countries possessing nuclear weapons would not go to conventional war against each other. The risk of an accidental nuclear war engulfing other countries was magnified by the close proximity of the two countries. Leaving aside the causes of that flare-up, I would like to commend the Prime Ministers and the Governments of the two countries for their restraint, good sense and wisdom in containing the conflict and displaying a high degree of responsibility to their peoples, to the rest of South Asia and to the peoples of the entire world. May I take this opportunity once again to appeal to the Prime Ministers of those two countries to resume their dialogue, begun in Lahore last February. Nepal welcomes the Sharm el-Sheikh accord between Prime Minister Barak and President Arafat as an irreversible step forward in the Middle East peace process. It opens the way to a just, lasting and comprehensive peace. We hope, for the sake of peace, 15 that negotiations between Syria and Israel and Lebanon will soon resume in accordance with relevant United Nations resolutions. Let me conclude with a brief mention of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC), which consists of the seven countries of the region, representing one fifth of humanity. We are united in a common effort to enhance the quality of life of all our peoples. I am looking forward to hosting the next summit meeting of heads of State or Government of the South Asian region in two months' time at Kathmandu. Our important agenda will deal with such issues as free trade and a SAARC social charter. We will also be signing a regional convention on combatting the crime of trafficking in women and children. This will be another landmark in the work of SAARC, a regional association dedicated to peace and cooperation in South Asia.   Allow me to begin, Mr. President, by extending to you the warmest congratulations of the delegation of the Union of Myanmar on your unanimous election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. Heavy and onerous indeed are the duties and responsibilities that fall upon you at this particular session. The task before the President of the General Assembly in any year is by no means easy. It is even less so this year, as this session has the additional task of undertaking the preparatory work for the millennium session of next year. However, we are fully confident that your great wealth of experience and outstanding diplomatic skills will stand you in good stead in the discharge of your responsibilities and that you will bring this session to a successful conclusion. I pledge my delegation's fullest cooperation for the advancement of the work of the Assembly under your able leadership. I also wish to pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Opertti, for his invaluable contribution to the successful conclusion of the previous session of the General Assembly. Our tribute also goes to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his untiring efforts in leading the world Organization so effectively through these extremely challenging and difficult years. Myanmar consistently supports the principle of the universality of membership of this world Organization. We are therefore most delighted to see in our midst three new Members this year. On behalf of the delegation of the Union of Myanmar, I should like to extend our warmest congratulations to the delegations of the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga, which have taken their rightful places in the Assembly. We live in a rapidly changing world. With the end of the cold war, the old era of the bipolar world has become a thing of the past. The world is in transition from the old to the new world order, which has not fully taken shape. At this critical juncture, the world is faced with uncertainties and unsettling situations. Sometimes, the world has even fallen victim to this turbulence and chaos. In dealing with such situations, it is our view that any solutions sought or measures taken, even with the best of intentions, should be in strict conformity with the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter. Furthermore, universally recognized principles governing international relations and the principle of respect for State sovereignty should be taken into account before resorting to measures of an extreme nature in connection with a particular situation. One outstanding question relating to the reform of the United Nations is the reform of the structure and working methods of the Security Council. We are encouraged to see that the General Assembly has taken a significant procedural step by adopting a resolution on the requirement of a two-thirds majority in taking decisions and adopting resolutions on this question. With regard to the core issue of enlargement of the Security Council, there are various proposals on the table regarding the possible size of the Council. As a member State of the Non-Aligned Movement, our preference is for enlargement of the Security Council up to 26 members. We favour the expansion of the membership of the Council in both categories, permanent and non-permanent. In order to overcome the current impasse on the question of permanent seats in the Security Council, a compromise formula, acceptable to all parties, should be worked out through enhanced consultations and discussions among the Member States. We are of the view that in the event other options fail to command enough support, the idea of rotating permanent seats should also be considered as one of the options in the permanent membership category. In the coming year, we are going to convene a landmark Assembly, the Millennium Assembly, and the millennium summit. It is crucially important that the Millennium Assembly and summit should not be mere ceremonial events, but should come up with concrete ideas and results. As it is clearly evident that the greatest challenge facing mankind well into the next millennium will be economic development and poverty eradication for the vast majority of people in the world, it is our view that particular attention should be given to these issues. Globalization can cut both positively and negatively. It can bring us new opportunities as well as additional problems. It is true that the process of globalization can facilitate economic development and enhance the living standards of people. But at the same time, it can make smaller and less developed States vulnerable to the undesirable negative effects of this process. One such problem caused by the process of globalization, is transnational crime, including illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs, money-laundering, trafficking in persons, arms- smuggling, piracy and terrorism. These crimes pose serious threats to the peace and stability of mankind at both national and regional levels. The nature of this problem is such that it requires national, regional and global responses. 36 I am pleased to inform the Assembly that in a bid to strengthen cooperation in the regional grouping, Myanmar hosted the second Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) ministerial meeting on transnational crime in June this year. The meeting was a success, and it constituted a significant step in advancing regional cooperation in combating this menace in the South-East Asian region. Let me also address the fight against narcotic drugs in Myanmar. My Government is greatly concerned about the drug menace, and the fight against narcotic drugs is regarded as a national task and the top priority. A master plan had been adopted to totally eradicate poppy cultivation within 15 years, in cooperation with ethnic leaders who signed peace agreements with the Government. In accord with the master plan, many areas have been declared opium-free zones and farmers are now turning to alternative crops. Law enforcement has been stepped up in the border areas, resulting in increased seizures of narcotic drugs. While we are quite successful in the suppression of opium and heroin production, though only scanty international assistance has been received, another tide of danger has emerged in the form of new synthetic drugs, such as methamphetamine. The new drugs are produced around our porous borders with precursor chemicals such as ephedrine, unavailable locally, and drug-making equipment illegally smuggled in from neighbouring countries. We are redirecting our efforts to deal with the new problem with the cooperation of the countries concerned. Allow me to take this opportunity to apprise the Assembly briefly of the recent developments and trends taking place in my country. My Government is against neither democracy nor human rights. As a matter of fact, we are taking necessary steps towards the establishment of a democratic nation. We have a vision of establishing a modern, peaceful and developed democratic State. In order to bring this vision into reality, we are reconsolidating national unity as the number one priority. Necessary foundations are being laid for the emergence of a nation where a disciplined and multi-party democratic system fully functions and justice, liberty and equality prevail. We fully subscribe to the human rights norms enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Here, I wish to underscore that the Government does not condone any violations of human rights, and the type of democracy we envision will guarantee the protection and promotion of human rights, particularly the right to the satisfaction of basic human needs such as clothing, food and shelter. If there is an imperative need for improvement in areas of human rights, we are willing and ready to receive sensible suggestions and take whatever action we possibly can. For instance, in the middle of this year, we received a delegation from the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and made detailed arrangements for them to visit the prisons in Myanmar, as a confidence-building measure and to enable them to interview the inmates in accordance with ICRC standard procedures. As a result of the full cooperation we extended to the ICRC delegation, those visits were successful and productive, enabling both sides to build mutual trust and goodwill. I consider it pertinent to state here that the ICRC delegation expressed their satisfaction with the overall situation regarding the relationship between the prison authorities and the inmates. Also, in August this year, Mr. Chris Sidoti, the Australian Human Rights Commissioner, visited Myanmar and held discussions with the authorities concerned, including myself, on the possibility of establishing a national human rights institution in Myanmar exchanges of views on cooperation between the two countries on human rights matters. As a result of this visit, we were able to identify certain areas of cooperation between the two countries. In conformity with our consistent policy of establishing friendly and amicable relations with all countries, we accepted the proposal for the visit of the Troika mission from the European Union to Myanmar in July this year. The mission was a fact-finding one, and both sides expressed their satisfaction with the result. It is our hope that this mission will further strengthen our relations with the European Union and pave the way for enhancing our contacts and dialogue with it towards a more meaningful and substantive level in the future. Similarly, we would also like to seek better relations with the United States of America. Furthermore, I would like to confirm our willingness to receive Mr. Alvaro de Soto, the Special Envoy of the United Nations Secretary- General for Myanmar, to visit my country in the near future. Myanmar is a multi-ethnic society where many national races with different and diverse cultural and social backgrounds reside together. In addition, primarily 37 because of the “divide and rule” policy under colonial rule, unity between the national races broke down and, as a result, armed insurrections broke out all over the country. For these reasons, the present Government came to the conclusion that racial harmony was imperative and that, in its absence, various issues would continue to hamper national development endeavours. This rationale led the Government to make peace overtures to the armed groups and establish peace with them. In order to restore trust and confidence between the national races, the Government has even allowed the ethnic armed groups to hold on to their weapons until a democratic government is formally established under the new constitution we are drafting now. This is a reflection of our trust in our national brethren. At the same time, the Government has launched an ambitious plan for the development of border areas and the national races there. Despite its meagre financial resources, the Government has spent over 15 billion kyats on the plan. At present, the national races are actively working together with the Government in their regional development efforts. This conscious and willing involvement in national development tasks as equal partners has nurtured the Union spirit and sense of togetherness. With 17 armed groups in the legal fold, peace is holding the entire length and breadth of the country. As far as the question of national unity is concerned, this is the first ever concrete result achieved, and it is unprecedented in the number of armed groups involved and the extent of peace established. This is a result we achieved through sincere, genuine and open dialogue between the Government and ethnic armed groups where we first built confidence and then convinced each other of our respective objectives. The Government is open to such a dialogue with any remaining groups, including the Karen National Union (KNU), where we could build confidence and identify common ground in the sole interest of the country and its people. In this regard, I wish to reiterate that the Government's offer of peace to the KNU still stands. As a matter of fact, the same dialogue is going on in the national convention process, where representatives of national races, political parties and delegates representing all strata of life are actively involved in drafting a new constitution to lay a solid foundation for a new democratic political system. The national convention has been a successful process whereby we have agreed on the basic principles that will govern the future life of the country and will allow self-administered zones for certain national groups. At this juncture, we are in the painful and arduous process of building a consensus on power-sharing, which is an extremely sensitive issue for all parties concerned. In view of the delicate nature of this sensitive question, it is vitally important for us to proceed systematically, and with the greatest caution possible, to safeguard the interests of all the national races and not to repeat the shortcomings of the previous two constitutions. We firmly believe that there is no better alternative to the current national convention process if we genuinely wish to transform the country into a peaceful, modern, developed, and democratic State. It is therefore essential for us to complete the national convention process. In this connection, it is our ardent hope that the international community will be supportive of our sincere efforts and appreciative of the positive achievements we have made thus far for the development of the country. Myanmar is very often portrayed from outside as if vast violations of human rights are taking place, forced labour is rampant, a free flow of narcotics exists and economic and social conditions are in chaos. These portrayals are in contradiction to the true situation. Let me cite here a widely known teaching of the Lord Buddha called “Kalama Sutta”. The Sutta says: “Oh, Ye Kalamas, do not be led by whatever you are told; do not be led by whatever has been handed down from the past generation; do not be led by hearsay or common opinion; do not be led by whatever the scriptures say; do not be led by mere logic; do not be led by mere deduction or inference; do not be led by considering outward appearance; do not be led by theory reflected as approval; do not be led by whatever a believable one says; and do not be led by what your teacher tells you is so”. In short, Lord Buddha taught us to accept and practice only when we ourselves know which is wrong and which is right. Everyone who visits Myanmar can see the greenness of the country, peace and tranquillity prevailing throughout the nation, people leading their normal daily lives with happiness and pleasure and building their nation with zest and zeal. The people have full knowledge that they are on the right path to peace and prosperity. I would like to invite all of you to come and see for yourselves. Seeing is believing! 38 Our nation is still in the process of building; solid foundations are being laid, and infrastructure is being improved throughout the country. The Government and the people fully understand where we were, where we are now and in which direction we are moving. We think of ourselves as builders, carpenters and plumbers building a house not to enjoy ourselves, but for all the people, who are its rightful owners. When the building is finished, furnished, furbished and fine-touched, it will be handed over to them. The people will decide who will manage the house. There are some Myanmar youths who abandoned our land and took refuge elsewhere. I should like to take this opportunity to send them a message from this podium that they will be welcomed with open arms if they return home, and I would like to invite them to join us in building the nation. Our future is in our hands. If we work together, we will reach our goal sooner rather than later. Religious harmony and freedom are our shared tradition. Our previous two Constitutions provided for safeguards against religious discrimination and religious intolerance. Similarly, the fundamental principles we have agreed on in the national convention process guarantee religious indiscrimination and religious tolerance. Although Myanmar is a predominantly Buddhist country, with nearly 90 per cent of the population professing Buddhism, the Government attaches great importance to harmonious relations among the major religions existing in the country. Accordingly, the Government has taken all necessary steps to encourage the prevailing harmony among the religions through continuous contacts with the respective religious leaderships and the provision of necessary assistance in both financial and material terms to enable them to promote their faiths effectively. I want to state here that there is freedom of religion for all faiths in the country. It is also worth recalling here that a few years ago Madam Ogata, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, remarked in her capacity as Independent Expert of the Commission on Human Rights, that Myanmar was a model society as far as religious tolerance was concerned. Though these remarks were made some time ago, I wish to stress that they remain valid and true to this day, and that the Government is determined to safeguard to the best of its ability all the religions of the country against intolerance, and to help them in all possible ways to coexist harmoniously with each other. I cannot conclude without mentioning what my country is achieving on the economic front. Despite some slowdown in economic growth due to the Asian financial crisis, Myanmar has enjoyed considerable economic growth in recent years. The emphasis of the Government is to promote private sector development and privatization. At the same time, the Government is focusing its endeavours on the development of the infrastructure as a precondition for sustained development. Moreover, the Government is carrying out an extensive programme of land reclamation in wet and virgin lands by granting large land holdings to the private companies. The private sector has been able to reclaim and develop 1.1 million acres of fallow land and wetlands for agricultural production, which will not only help domestic food supply but will also contribute to regional food security. We have a vision for the new millennium, a vision of building a peaceful, modern, developed and democratic society. We will endeavour to realize our vision with whatever resources we have at our disposal. The realization of this goal could be accelerated if we receive the support of the international community. We are optimistic that we will be able to achieve our vision, and that the international community will demonstrate understanding and appreciation of our sincere efforts to uplift the economic and social well-being of the people of Myanmar.  I take this opportunity to congratulate Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab on his election to the presidency of this session of the General Assembly. I am confident that his vision and energy will guide this session to a successful conclusion. I also thank Mr. Didier Opertti, who led the fifty-third session of the General Assembly with remarkable distinction and efficiency. I commend Mr. Kofi Annan, the esteemed Secretary-General of this Organization, of whom the people of the Caribbean are particularly proud for his vision and managerial skills as he heads the United Nations, in precarious financial circumstances, responding to increased demands with diminishing resources. I wish to assure the Secretary-General of the continued support and cooperation of the Government of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. I join previous speakers in welcoming the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga as new Members of the United Nations family. Their membership strengthens the universal character of our Organization. I extend condolences to the families of the victims of the earthquakes in Turkey, Greece and, more recently, the Republic of China on Taiwan. I reiterate the sentiments of sympathy already transmitted to the Government and people of the Bahamas, a sister country in the Caribbean Community, and to the United States of America in relation to the devastation wrought by Hurricane Floyd. The fifty-fourth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations, coming at the end of a century that has seen war and destruction on the one hand and unprecedented developments in science and technology on the other, provides a timely opportunity to reflect on the Organization's achievements, assess its continued relevance in a radically changed environment and chart an appropriate course of action for the future. Many powerful forces believe that the United Nations has perhaps outlived its usefulness and exists now only as the world's most expensive debating club. Ministers of Finance are presently convened in Washington, D.C., at the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank Group. There, too, the opinion can no doubt be heard that circumstances have now overtaken the Bretton Woods institutions. The big and powerful nations of the world can afford to argue thus, but for small, vulnerable, developing countries such as Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, these institutions are important buffers in the interplay between finance and politics in the international arena. The operating budgets of many transnational corporations are far greater than the national budgets of developing countries such as mine, and we are painfully aware that the international development agenda is controlled by these corporations. Despite the technological advances of the last decade and the tremendous increase in worldwide commerce, the benefits of globalization have not been evenly distributed and it is abundantly clear that developing countries continue to be marginalized. While we acknowledge and 25 respect the general thrust towards open markets, competition and free trade, I must reiterate my country's position regarding our vital trade in bananas. Even as we move to diversify, improve quality and pursue alternative strategies and options for development in tourism, financial services and informatics, our economic survival and social stability remain closely linked to the banana trade and the income it provides for our farmers. Indeed, there is a strong and persistent correlation between the rate of economic growth and the performance of the industry. This is further illustrated by the following facts: in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, the contribution of the banana industry to direct employment is 40 per cent; in the Windward Islands as a whole, banana export earnings account for over 50 per cent of the gross domestic product; and windward Islands exports account for only 1 per cent of the world trade in bananas. The imminent collapse of our major banana market demonstrates just how powerless small developing States continue to be against powerful countries and mega- corporations. The disregard for our interests and, indeed, our survival, by the United States of America, which does not export a single hand of bananas, is truly inexplicable. The inevitable consequences of this stance will be economic and social dislocation, manifested in increased unemployment, impoverishment for our farmers, crime and the erosion of basic human rights and dignity. The iniquitous and restrictive immigration policies of certain developed countries have served only to exacerbate the social disintegration of our societies, which are already under severe stress. If small developing economies are to be able to attract investment, expand production, improve product quality and meet standards — in short, compete effectively and grasp the opportunities presented in the World Trade Organization agreements — it is imperative that recognition should be given to their need for support and for adequate transitional periods to fully liberalized world trade, which should apply also to the banana trade. As a corollary to our overall economic development strategy, the Government of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines continues to explore, with the assistance of friendly nations, options for enhanced airport development on mainland Saint Vincent. The requirements for agricultural and economic diversification make this endeavour even more urgent. We are exceptionally grateful to the European Union for the support which it is continuing to give to ensure our survival, even in the face of threats to its own economic prosperity. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is involved, with other members of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), in a fundamental process of deepening regional integration through the establishment of a single market and economy by 2001. We are taking important steps to facilitate the free movement of goods, services, capital and people in the countries of the Community. We are doing this at a time when the momentum of trade liberalization and economic globalization has never been greater. The region is also committed to the establishment of the Free Trade Area of the Americas by 2004. CARICOM has established regional negotiating machinery to coordinate the region's participation in external trade negotiations, including the Seattle Round of multinational trade negotiations. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is resolute in its opposition to the international trade in drugs. To this end, my Government is moving bilaterally and with member countries of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States and CARICOM, to establish agreements with third countries on mutual assistance in criminal matters. The Government of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, recognizing its own limitations in confronting the enormous power and resources of drug traffickers, has signed a “ship rider” agreement that gives authority to pursue such criminals in the territorial waters of our archipelagic State. Governments in the small developing countries of the Caribbean pay a high political price for cooperating with the developed countries in the fight against drugs. There were loud protests from certain sections of the population against the Government when the security forces of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, in collaboration with the Regional Security Service and contingents from other friendly countries, launched an eradication campaign in our mountainous interior: they questioned the Government's cooperation at a time when access for bananas and other products from the Caribbean to the European market was being challenged. My Government will continue to honour its commitments under all international agreements to which we are signatory. We have enacted appropriate stringent measures in our financial regulations to ensure that proceeds from the illicit drug trade are not laundered in 26 our financial system. The efforts of economically vulnerable countries such as ours in combatting the scourge of drugs must be recognized and supported by the international community in general, and by traditionally friendly countries in particular. Our countries do not wish to be forced out of the world trade in legitimate products, causing our peoples to turn in desperation to trafficking in illegal products. In Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and in other countries members of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), we believe in stability based on a solid foundation of democracy, respect for human rights and the creation of economic and other opportunities for the development of our peoples. CARICOM has built an outstanding record in this regard. The recent mission to Haiti headed by our own Prime Minister, The Right Honourable Sir James Mitchell, to examine that country's readiness to conduct general elections, is another example of CARICOM's commitment to those principles. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines places very high priority on education, training and human-resource development. These are a very important part of the declaration of principles adopted by the leaders of the 34 countries of the western hemisphere at the second Summit of the Americas, held at Santiago, Chile, in 1998. I take this opportunity to reiterate the gratitude of the Government and the people of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines to the Government and the people of Cuba, which despite their difficult economic circumstances, caused by the continuing trade embargo against that Caribbean country, have offered numerous scholarships to the young people of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines places great value on this unmistakable act of friendship and assistance. Small island developing States such as Saint Vincent and the Grenadines attach great importance to such issues as the integrity of our coastal and marine resources, solid- waste management and natural-disaster preparedness, because we are conscious of the negative repercussions that can result if effective measures are not put in place. We run the risk of damaging our fragile ecosystems to the detriment of development and tourism, and moreover compromising their sustainable use and enjoyment by future generations. It is for that reason that CARICOM condemns in the strongest terms the shipment of hazardous material through the territorial waters of the Caribbean countries. Without the benefit of scientific proof of the origins and reasons for the recent fish kill in our waters, there is cause for serious concern; investigation in this regard is ongoing. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines shares the concerns expressed by other small island developing States and strongly supports the adoption of a draft resolution on small island developing States recognizing the Caribbean Sea as a special area in the context of sustainable development. The vulnerability of small States has been made more acute because of lack of capacity, declining aid flows, graduation from concessionary financing, the disappearance of trade preferences, and a lack of competitiveness. The implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States is therefore imperative for our survival. My delegation fully supports the efforts of the international community in addressing the conflicts in Kosovo and in East Timor. We look forward to lasting peace and stability in those areas. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines also applauds the efforts and commitment of Prime Minister Barak of Israel and Chairman Arafat of the Palestine Liberation Organization to bring peace and security to the people of their region. A draft resolution on the readmission to this body of the Republic of China on Taiwan was once again defeated. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, however, strongly supports the aspiration of those 21 million people to exercise their right to share and participate in the activities of this community of nations. My country has consistently expressed its views in relation to reform of the United Nations in general and of the Security Council in particular. I will not revisit them now, but I wish to reiterate that Saint Vincent and the Grenadines strongly favours reform of the United Nations to give more equitable consideration to the concerns of the majority of countries comprising the General Assembly. Let us remodel it along more democratic lines to address the realities of the world today. As we approach the new millennium, my delegation would like to urge all Member States to demonstrate their unwavering support for the goals and ideals enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations: peace, security, human rights, fundamental freedoms, international cooperation, and development for all mankind. 27  Please, Sir, accept my most sincere congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly at this session, as well as my wishes for every success in the discharge of this complex and responsible mission. We are thankful for the work of your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti. We also greatly appreciate the efforts of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, to effectively and energetically lead our Organization. Belarus welcomes the enlargement of the United Nations family of nations, which recently accepted three new members: the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. The fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly is being held at the doorway between centuries and millennia. This fact alone urges us to take an in-depth look at both the past and the present of the United Nations and to think about its future. The expanding global challenges, especially ethnic conflicts, deterioration of the environment, transnational crime and terrorism can be met only by concerted efforts of the United Nations. Belarus will be actively contributing to the formation of a new image of the United Nations as an organization capable of tackling the challenges of the day. Our country was among the Organization's founding members, who bestowed upon the United Nations such high and noble goals and principles. We are interested in their consolidation and development. This year the Organization experienced what was probably one of the most serious tests in its entire history. The United Nations was virtually marginalized during the crisis around Yugoslavia. The decision to use military force against a sovereign State was taken without the authorization of the Security Council. Although the settlement of the Kosovo crisis has now been brought back under the auspices of the United 3 Nations, a recurrence of attempts to randomly use force outside the Security Council mechanism cannot be excluded. Consequently, the question as to whether the Security Council should remain the only — I reiterate, the only — international institution to authorize the use of force for the maintenance of international peace and security as yet remains unanswered. The answer that is today given to this question will determine developments in the twenty-first century. Will it be the age of fairness and the rule of law, or will the world be thrown back into the era when force was the only argument? From a historical perspective, such a development would return us to the beginning of this century. Let us recall that the dawn of the twentieth century saw nations divided into two categories: subjects and objects of international law, with their fate totally dependent upon their ability to defend themselves by military force. I believe that a totally different world order would most adequately meet the interests of all members of the international community. This is a world order in which all countries are equal and are protected by international law and the United Nations. The prerogative of the Security Council to establish and maintain peace and security is a key element of this system. Naturally this places a special burden of responsibility on the Security Council and its members. We view the increase in both permanent and non-permanent members of the Council on the basis of equitable geographical distribution to be an important measure that would improve the Council's effectiveness. Guided by the intention to contribute further to strengthening peace and security, Belarus has presented its candidature for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council for the period 2002-2003. The elections will be held in 2001, during the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly. As regards the responsibility of the United Nations for the maintenance of peace and security, I would also like to underline the need to make fuller use of the entire set of measures envisaged in the Charter. Special emphasis should be put on the prevention of conflicts by peaceful means, which, if applied in a consistent and efficient manner, would produce substantial results. This can be explicitly illustrated by recent positive developments in the Middle East peace process, which Belarus welcomes and supports. I avail myself of this opportunity to reaffirm the readiness of the Government of the Republic of Belarus to contribute actively to the resolution of conflicts in post- Soviet countries and, in particular, to host in our capital, Minsk, the international conference on Nagorny Karabakh. More than half a century ago, sovereign States, including Belarus, founded the United Nations to “reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person”. To uphold its legal and moral commitments the international community cannot and must not remain inactive in the face of gross and systematic violations of human rights. Genocide in Rwanda, events in East Timor — these and similar occurrences must lead to immediate and decisive action on the part of the United Nations. But such action must be taken in full compliance with the decisions of the Security Council. At the same time it is obvious that the sacred principle of the protection of human rights, once interpreted selectively, becomes meaningless. Unfortunately, double standards in the interpretation of the notion of human rights are still applied all too often in international politics. It would be dangerously misleading to assume that human rights can be protected by means that ignore the principle of the sovereign equality of States. Disregarding State interests in the pursuit of individual values can cause unpredictable consequences. Globalization is creating a situation in which the prosperity and even more the underdevelopment of certain regions, or conflicts in them, directly affect the global state of affairs. From this perspective, the developments of the twenty-first century will be largely influenced by processes taking shape in the enormous Eurasian region, of which my country is an integral part. Multi-ethnic and multi-confessional Belarus has, thank God, avoided the religious and ethnic conflicts that have been so characteristic of many post-Soviet countries. Duly organized governmental management and law enforcement systems have allowed us to ensure an adequate level of security for our society and people. Situated on the crossroads between the east and the west, the north and the south of the continent, Belarus will be further contributing to international cooperation in combating transborder crime, terrorism and illicit drug trafficking. 4 A few days ago Belarus became party to the International Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings. We also support the idea of holding a United Nations conference or a special session of the General Assembly on the suppression of terrorism. Belarus is ready to cooperate most actively with all members of the international community to address these and other global and regional challenges. Openness to mutually beneficial cooperation is probably one of the main features of Belarus' foreign policy, which sincerely seeks to establish a network of good neighbourly relations embracing our country. Although consistent in its principled position on the enlargement of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), Belarus demonstrates good will and acts constructively to prevent the re-emergence of new dividing lines in Europe. In this context, we support the idea of adopting, at the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) summit in Istanbul, the charter for European security, which is to become a code of behaviour for all of Europe. Historically and geographically belonging to European civilization, Belarus is seeking to become a full fledged member of integration processes on the continent. The rapprochement between Belarus and Russia is in line with processes of global development. The consolidation of efforts by Belarus and Russia, enjoying wide public support in both countries, allows us to more effectively solve problems faced by the two States and two peoples. Belarus has become a full fledged member of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM). We share the values and philosophy of the Movement and the provisions of the NAM Plan of Action that are consonant with the United Nations principles and objectives, as well as with the global challenges of establishing a multipolar world order. Regrettably, the world is entering the new century with the burden of arms so powerful they can extinguish all life on the planet. For this reason, disarmament, especially in the nuclear sphere, remains among the main priorities of the United Nations. A few years ago, Belarus made an historic choice by relinquishing the possession of nuclear arms inherited from the former Soviet Union. Now, we urge all countries which have not yet become parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) to join those that have made the establishment of a nuclear- weapon-free world their utmost priority. We also stand for an early agreement on the prohibition of the production of fissile materials. In conditions in which the nuclear Powers are still not ready fully to relinquish the possession of such arms, there is a pressing need to withdraw them from as much of the world as possible, especially from heavily populated regions. Proceeding from this, we once again call on countries of our region to review their attitudes towards the initiative put forward by President Lukashenka of Belarus on the establishment of a nuclear- weapon-free space in Central and Eastern Europe, as reflected in the relevant resolutions of the United Nations General Assembly. The assumption by countries of our region of binding legal commitments not to deploy nuclear weapons on their territory would be of paramount importance to the security of the European family of nations. I believe that, sooner or later, all our neighbours will arrive at this obvious conclusion. Since time is of the essence, we propose to begin consultations immediately with all interested parties to exchange ideas and bridge positions on this problem. Other types of weapons of mass destruction are by no means less dangerous. We welcome the appeal voiced from this high rostrum to protect our children from the scourge of nuclear, chemical and biological warfare. We believe that the international community would be taking the right step if it were to establish a preventive mechanism to take timely and coordinated measures to control the development and production of new types of weapons of mass destruction. Proceeding from this, the Belarus delegation at this session will initiate a draft resolution on the prohibition of the development and manufacture of new types of weapons of mass destruction and new systems of such weapons. Likewise, we support the proposal to adopt a resolution on the consolidation of and respect for the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty. As was rightly observed in this Hall, the strength and effectiveness of the United Nations depend on the sustainable development of its Member States. Having achieved independence, Belarus has chosen its own model of economic development which adequately reflects its national conditions and capacity. This is a model socially oriented market economy. Our objective is not simply the implementation of reforms for their own sake, but the achievement of a more effective economy. In recent years, we have been maintaining a positive dynamic of gross domestic product growth that, in 1998, was up by 5 8 per cent. Belarus is a self-reliant country. Our outstanding debt is only $133 per capita. An open economy, Belarus exports more than half of its gross domestic product and is taking energetic measures to find an appropriate place in the international division of labour. Our country has all the necessary prerequisites for that, including extensive technical and scientific potential and human resources. Economic performance is essential for safeguarding social stability. The development of democratic institutions is an integral part of sustainable development. Mindful of that, the Government of Belarus has initiated a broad dialogue between all political forces in the country in an effort to jointly analyze avenues for the further political development of Belarus at the beginning of the twenty-first century. The parliamentary elections in 2000 and the presidential elections in 2001 should play an important role in this process. The Government of Belarus will make every effort to conduct these elections democratically and freely. Among the important global challenges facing the United Nations is the protection of the environment and the alleviation of the negative consequences of natural disasters and technological catastrophes. For more than 13 years now, this has been a matter of survival for the Belarusian nation. The elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster accounts for almost 20 per cent of our annual budget spending. I take this opportunity to express most sincere gratitude to all the States and international intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations which throughout these years have never been dispassionate about the tragedy of the Belarusian people. Positively assessing the efforts of the United Nations, Belarus today calls upon the international community to continue cooperation and strengthen the United Nations role in this direction. Together with the Russian Federation and Ukraine, Belarus will present a draft resolution on this issue at the current session. We are hopeful that the United Nations Member States will render their valuable support. The current session of the General Assembly is an important stage in preparing for the Millennium Assembly that should take practical decisions worthy of this forum. The Republic of Belarus has proposed as a subject for discussion at the 2000 Assembly the issue of the United Nations role in the furtherance of peace and human sustainable development in conditions of globalization. Aware of the historic importance of this event, Belarus will actively contribute to the success of the Millennium Assembly and Summit and reaffirms its commitment to the goals and principles of the United Nations Charter.  Allow me first of all to associate myself with previous speakers in expressing to you, Sir, and to the members of the Bureau, my delegation's warm congratulations on your election to lead us in the General Assembly at this session. You can count on our total support for the accomplishment of your difficult task. I would also like to express my appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, for the skill and competence he exhibited during his mandate. I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga on having joined the great family of the United Nations. Finally, allow me to pay tribute to the work of Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General of our Organization, for his ceaseless efforts in favour of international peace and security. My country, Burundi, fully appreciates his valuable contribution to the search for a negotiated political solution to the crisis it has suffered since October 1993. As the work of the current session of the General Assembly is taking place, my country is striving to turn a new page in its history. Burundis have decidedly chosen dialogue and negotiation to put an end to the armed conflict that has lasted for almost six years. The Arusha peace talks that began in June 1998 under the aegis of the former President of the sisterly country of Tanzania, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, are being actively pursued and are now at a crucial stage. The sixth round of the Arusha peace talks, which ended a few days ago, was preceded by fruitful consultations held in Dar-Es-Salaam among the six principal negotiators aimed at reaching a compromise 23 based on the drafts submitted by the negotiating parties or groups of parties. These consultations, which represent the keystone of the peace process, should resume on 4 October. We hope that this time they will have tangible results that could serve as a basis for the final Arusha agreement. Let me briefly recall the specific context in which the Arusha process was initiated in June 1998: five years of relentless fratricidal war between the rebels and the Government, in which the principal victims had been, as they continue to be, hundreds of thousands of innocent children, women and elderly people, for the most part unarmed. More than 30 years of massacres and killings have torn asunder the very fabric of society and resulted in entrenched hatred and extreme mistrust among the various ethnic and political groups. Repeated crises have resulted in massive flows of refugees and a major diaspora. Furthermore, economic development plans have been consistently hamstrung by recurring political instability. It was in that context that the Government objectively and deliberately decided to abandon the logic of war and to choose political dialogue in which all the people of Burundi could participate without exception, regardless of the manner — peaceful or armed — in which they previously had chosen to make their political demands. The armed groups were a particular focus of this dialogue, and it was mainly because of them that the negotiations were held outside the country. The goal is to reach a comprehensive peace agreement and ultimately achieve full national reconciliation among the entire population of Burundi, without exception. Several obstacles continue to stand in the way of that lofty goal, which will not be attained if timely efforts are not made to overcome those challenges. The first obstacle is the failure of the armed rebel factions to participate in the negotiations. Differences of opinion within those movements, where the armed groups no longer recognize the authority of the political leaders who are participating in the Arusha negotiations and thus reject the outcome ahead of time, have resulted in a situation in which the validity and viability of any peace agreement reached without those parties would be in doubt. The Government of Burundi believes that it is imperative to set aside the formalities advocated by the mediators and to invite the armed factions to participate fully in the peace process. The Government of Burundi is willing to consider any form of negotiation with them, within or outside the process. Mediation should take place immediately, because we are working against the clock in this fragile peace process, which could be jeopardized or brought to a halt by events. If, after being invited, the armed factions or other parties to the negotiations refuse to participate in the peace process, we would agree with the mediators that Burundi, in close and steadfast cooperation with its neighbours, must isolate and neutralize the rebels or other parties that are unwilling to participate in the negotiations. The second obstacle is the continuing violence. In other crisis situations, political dialogue for conflict settlement is preceded by a ceasefire or a suspension of hostilities. In the case of Burundi, however, that necessary condition for negotiation has been neglected since the beginning, as if it were optional. The Government draws to the attention of the subregion and of the international community the serious and continuing acts of violence committed by the rebels despite the ongoing peace negotiations. These unrestrained and cowardly acts of violence, whose main target is unarmed civilians, have no moral or political justification. No one even claims responsibility; it is pure terrorism. If the rebels were eventually to use as a pretext the fact that they had wished to participate in the negotiations, it would have no validity because, as I have just stated, the Government is open to any initiative that might lead to the cessation of the hostilities, which have gone on for far too long. The situation is serious, and the Government of Burundi requests the international and regional communities to help it in the following ways. First, through effective cooperation with neighbouring countries in the area of security, including with the Republic of Tanzania, with which cooperation decisions were taken at the ministerial level on two occasions, in February and August 1999; those decisions have not been implemented. There is no doubt that if those decisions were translated into joint action on the ground, both external and internal rebel activities would soon cease. Secondly, it is necessary to disarm and neutralize those Burundi rebels who are active in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where they are able to obtain a ready supply of arms and ammunition for their bases in Tanzania, as they have not been able to re-establish those 24 they lost in South Kivu in 1997 after the first war in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Thirdly, the countries of the region must wage a common struggle against transnational rebel movements, arms trafficking and genocidal ideology. Those movements have created alliances without borders. Among the rebels who operate in Burundi are the Interahamwe, the former Rwandan armed forces and Ugandan rebels, among others. The Burundi rebellion has become regional in scope and must be combated from that perspective. Intensified activity has been noted on the part of the factions in the Democratic Republic of the Congo since the Lusaka agreement, which provided for their disarmament. The conflict is thus being regionalized, with Burundi and/or Tanzania as its epicentre. Prevention is better than cure. There is a real risk of another regional conflagration resulting from the countries concerned taking measures to protect themselves against these widespread rebellions. In any case, the Government will find it difficult to sign the peace agreement if it is not preceded by an effective halt to the violence on the ground. The population, parts of which are still being massacred, would simply reject it. The third — although not the least significant — obstacle to the peace process is the extreme poverty that threatens the people of Burundi with social and economic annihilation. That poverty is not the result of a reduction in agricultural production, which has continued somehow thanks to the hard-working nature of our countryfolk. Nor is it the result of the embargo imposed by the countries of the region, since economic and financial cooperation with those countries was and still is very limited. It results above all from the freezing of bilateral and multilateral cooperation by certain partners, countries and financial institutions in line with the economic sanctions imposed by the subregion. Those regional sanctions were suspended on 23 January this year, and Burundi expected that, mutatis mutandis, our international partners would resume their cooperation in conformity with the subregional action. That has not yet happened, and some financial institutions, which anticipate no practical problems, are blocked by their shareholders at the political level. It is said that we will have to wait for the signing, or even the implementation, of the Arusha Agreement. Peace and national reconciliation in Burundi will not be restored through revolution. It is a process that will be consolidated over time. Nothing spectacular will happen the day the peace agreement is signed. It is progressive reform activities, taking place as a result of courageous and determined political will, that will stabilize the country over the months and years following the signing of the agreement. All the parties involved in the negotiations agrees that peace will be not an event, but a process. Furthermore, the rate at which negotiations proceed will not be subject to the Government’s control; it will be linked to the procedures followed by the mediators and to the willingness of the 17 other parties to the negotiations to place the national interest above all else, to distinguish between what is essential and what is of secondary importance, and to realize that the true road to peace will begin after the signing of the Arusha Agreement, among the citizens of Burundi themselves. The Government of Burundi calls on its partners to reassess the situation and consider the realities on the ground as a matter of great urgency. The extreme stress under which the population has been suffering for six years is pushing it towards a popular uprising. The responsibility lies with the international community, which is committed in this respect. The Government has provided all it can: proof of its irreversible political will to negotiate until a peace agreement is reached. The Great Lakes region has become a real powder keg because of the persistence of insecurity. With regard to the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Burundi welcomes the signing in July of the Lusaka Peace Agreement. We call on all the parties to that conflict to continue to make efforts to restore a climate of dialogue, trust and reconciliation, so that energy can be concentrated on actions aimed at economic recovery and development. Burundi is not a belligerent in the war that is pitting the Democratic Republic of the Congo against some of its neighbours. The Government of Burundi has already had the opportunity to explain that fact to the international community on several occasions in various forums, including from this lofty rostrum last year; in Lusaka, where it participated in all the meetings as an observer and as one of the countries neighbouring the Democratic Republic of the Congo that were concerned about the security of their common border; and in meetings of the Organization of African Unity. Listening to the statement made in this Assembly by the Chairman of the delegation of the Democratic Republic of the Congo on 29 September, I was astonished by his confusion and the degree of malice he expressed towards my country, Burundi. I should like to respond by making several comments. 25 First, Burundi is not at war with the Democratic Republic of the Congo, either individually or in alliance with any other party. Second, Burundi has no reason to be at war with the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is true that it is poor and that the Democratic Republic of the Congo is rich. But Burundi has never wanted, does not want, and will never want to live off the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It will develop a policy of normal cooperation with that country, as has always been the case, in particular within the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries. Furthermore, the trading arrangements that exist between the border towns and border provinces do not cause Burundi any problems and should continue. Third, Burundi has no political ambitions in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, at either the central or the provincial level. Fourth, Burundi had just signed an agreement for cooperation on border security when war broke out. Fifth, Burundi has adopted an attitude of strict neutrality with regard to the conflict, and has no interest in it. Sixth, several months after war broke out Burundi was informed of the presence among the Congolese troops of the armed Burundi rebel movement, the FDD. Burundi’s assessment was that the FDD had a threefold objective: first, to obtain arms and munitions to strengthen their bases in Tanzania; secondly, to cross Lake Tanganyika and recover the bases they had lost in south Kivu facing the capital, Bujumbura, and the provinces of Bubanza and Cibitoke, where the civil war broke out in 1994; and, thirdly, to obstruct trade on Lake Tanganyika to and from Burundi through the port of Mpulungu in Zambia, which is the only import-export corridor remaining following the economic blockade imposed by the region in an attempt to suffocate the country. Seventh, Burundi had to defend itself, and decided to adopt necessary border defence and security measures on land and on Lake Tanganyika in order to counter-attack the FDD rebels. It was a question of life or death. Those measures will remain in place as long as the threat of insecurity caused by the FDD, and coming from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, remains. That is the absolute truth. The allegations made by the delegation of the Democratic Republic of the Congo that Burundi is acting aggressively towards their country, are groundless and based on invention and misinformation. Burundi is ready to do all it can to help to resolve the conflict. It welcomes in particular the fact that two military observers were sent to Burundi in the framework of the pre-deployment exercise decided upon by the United Nations. Burundi cannot fail to welcome the prospects for a final resolution of the crisis in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which would immediately remove the threat of insecurity at the common border and, we hope, involve the FDD rebels in the peace process in Burundi. At this final General Assembly session of the millennium, my delegation hails the giant steps taken by mankind in science and technology, information and communication, democracy and development — especially during the twentieth century, which is now drawing to a close. At the same time, we deplore the scourges that have marked this century, such as all manner of wars and conflicts and a range of evils and natural or man-made catastrophes. Our greatest wish is that the new millennium will bolster our achievements and add new triumphs for the well-being of the whole of mankind. We want to see in the next millennium a world in which peace will prevail over conflict, justice over injustice and impunity, freedom over oppression and generosity over selfishness. We seek the creation of a world in which the gap between rich countries and poor countries will be bridged; a world in which all men and all women will live decent lives, work in peace and eat their fill; a world in which the concepts of freedom, democracy, brotherhood and development can have true meaning in every corner of the earth. For all peoples and all nations to set about attaining these purposes, the United Nations must play the role of vanguard and catalyst to generate and maximize all the necessary energy. The key to such success is, first and foremost, peace. The peace that we desire for Africa we also want to see benefitting all mankind everywhere on earth.  Mr. President, the session of the General Assembly over which you are presiding marks the last to be held this century. We are about to turn a new leaf in history. It is, therefore, a time for reflection, a time to reap our lessons and draw our conclusions. It is also a time to reorganize our goals, priorities and our agenda for the next century. Therefore, there is a recurrent theme throughout this session. We all try to assess what we have achieved and where we have failed in the twentieth century. As we look back on our performance, we observe that within every success story, we also somehow had our failures. The twentieth century has witnessed unprecedented scientific progress. These achievements, however, were not used solely to advance the human cause and to improve the quality of life. To a very large extent, these scientific and technological innovations were also used as instruments for the destruction of life. Throughout the century, there was an enormous accumulation of wealth. But the vast majority of the world's population is deprived of this wealth. Poverty, and sometimes even hunger, is still their fate. This century has produced great intellectual achievements and depth. But it has also been the stage of distorted ideologies which produced tyrannies and sometimes encouraged practices like ethnic cleansing. In other words, while the twentieth century created technology and generated material and intellectual wealth, it could not organize the means to put them totally to the service of humanity as a whole. This is our failure. This is the challenge we face. This is what we must overcome. The global issues we face, whether political, economic, social or environmental, will from now on require further intensification of our concerted efforts. As the primary forum for international cooperation, the United Nations will continue to be the focal point of our collective endeavours. The wealth of experience accumulated by the United Nations, together with the plans of action devised to address the challenges we face, must now be put to more effective use. The millennium summit next year should provide the guidance needed to place our assets to work more efficiently in the twenty-first century. A little over a month ago, one of the deadliest earthquakes of the century struck the northwest of Turkey. This is the most populous region of my country. The devastating quake claimed more than 15,000 lives, and thrice as many were wounded. It left about half a million people homeless. We have, undoubtedly, derived great fortitude from the exemplary display of solidarity and the swift response of the international community. The best qualities of human nature were at work: sharing the other's agony and lending a hand to help heal and to reconstruct. I would like to convey the gratitude of the Government and the people of Turkey to all Members, the international community, the United Nations system, along with the numerous volunteers and individuals who stood with us at our most trying hour. We express our deep feelings of sympathy for and solidarity with those affected by the earthquake near Taipei. In the face of the recent wave of earthquakes, we believe this Organization can take a further step with regard to natural disasters. This would be in keeping with the greater role of the United Nations in our lives. That is why my country, together with our neighbour Greece, which also suffered a similar calamity recently, is introducing a draft resolution to the General Assembly. This was eloquently announced by my Greek counterpart, George Papandreou, yesterday in the General Assembly. We hope that it will receive Members' support. On the eve of the twenty-first century, Turkey looks forward to enhancing its contribution to international peace and stability. At the epicentre of Eurasia, it aspires to broaden the scope of cooperation and prosperity, while it continues in its traditional role of connecting continents and civilizations. 37 More specifically, Turkey is actively involved in the efforts to secure peace and stability in the Balkans, the Middle East, the southern Caucasus region and Central Asia. We also partake in their democratic and economic development efforts. Turkey enjoys the vast potential of historical and cultural affinities with many of the countries in the Caucasus region and Central Asia. We will work for the resolution of the various conflicts in the region and continue to foster ever closer relations with all of them. Cooperation can rapidly lead the peoples of this region to higher levels of wealth and prosperity. Central Asia will certainly witness tremendous economic development, given its rich human and natural resources. Turkey, lying at the hub, will become an energy terminal, connecting in more ways than one, the wealth and resources of Eurasia. We see the mega-projects of the next century realized in our country and our region. We are committed to the vision of a peaceful, democratic, and prosperous future in south-eastern Europe. We will continue to bring forth our resources and contributions to that end. The need for a large-scale and long-term stabilization and reconstruction programme for the entire region, and more urgently for Kosovo, is evident. We therefore welcome the stability pact for South-Eastern Europe. In this context, it is important that the agreements and arrangements on Kosovo are fully implemented, along with the continuation of support and assistance to Albania and Macedonia. As the wounds of the Bosnian tragedy are yet to be healed, the provisions of the Dayton Peace Agreement must be strictly observed and implemented. The tragedies in the Balkans have taught us to be absolutely cautious and balanced in addressing conflict, whether ethnic or otherwise. We do not have the luxury of acting upon selective memory or one-sided preferences. We cannot afford to impose solutions that do not correspond to the realities and to the aspirations of the peoples concerned. A case in point is Cyprus. Until 1974 the Turkish Cypriots suffered a great deal in protecting their legitimate rights and interests. There can be no return to those dark days. A just and lasting compromise in Cyprus today can only be based upon the existing realities. There are two separate peoples, two separate States in Cyprus. These two States should be able to solve their differences through their own free will. In the meantime, there could be steps to improve the atmosphere between the two sides by lifting the unjust embargo on the Turkish Cypriots and by also adopting deconfrontational measures, as proposed by the United Nations Secretary-General. On our part, we believe that the confederation proposal provides the basis for a realistic and viable settlement in Cyprus. We are encouraged by the recent developments in the Middle East peace process. Once mutual tolerance and understanding start to fully reign over this region, we believe all nations will display fully their historic economic capabilities and their wisdom. My country will continue to actively support the aim of reaching lasting peace and security in the Middle East. Following an exchange of letters with my Greek counterpart, George Papandreou, about three months ago, our two countries, Turkey and Greece, initiated joint committees to work on specific issues. Since then high- ranking officials of the Foreign Ministries held two rounds of meetings and explored the possibilities of promoting cooperation. Committees were mandated in the fields of tourism, environment, trade, culture, regional cooperation and the fight against organized crime, illegal immigration, drug trafficking and terrorism. Both sides are agreed that there is scope for further cooperation in these fields and identified specific projects to this end. Turkey has the will to carry this process to other spheres of our relationship. Following the earthquakes that struck the two countries, the emotions and solidarity displayed by the Turkish and Greek peoples demonstrate that the two peoples will not accept confrontation and tension as a way of life, and that they prefer friendship. This powerful message of our peoples will help our Governments to move forward with greater confidence. Turkey will this year host the last summit of the century. The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) summit to be held in Istanbul in November will set the stage for important decisions. The outcome will play a significant role in shaping the future security and cooperation architecture in the Eurasian landscape. Our political resolve to promote peace and stability over such a wide horizon is on record. Given the opportunity, we are prepared to take upon ourselves even greater responsibilities. 38 Turkey has presented its candidature for membership on the United Nations Security Council for 2001-2002. We want to contribute to the making of the next millennium as a member of the Council. We ask for Members' support. The compelling lesson to be drawn from the twentieth century is that our highest priority should be the protection of the dignity of humankind and the enhancement of the quality of life. Whether it is to halt aggression, to stop crimes against humanity, to purge societies of racist and xenophobic tendencies, of cultural and religious intolerance, to combat international terrorism, to provide humanitarian assistance, to bridge the gap between the rich and the poor or to secure sustainable economic and social development, we should act as an international coalition — that is, as the United Nations. Let us make the twenty-first century the new age of nations united for a more humane and prosperous era for all.   I wish first of all, on behalf of my delegation, to join other speakers in congratulating you, Sir, on your unanimous election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. The tact and insight you have displayed from the outset bode well for the success of our work. I also pay tribute to His Excellency Mr. Didier Opertti, who guided the work of the Assembly at its fifty-third session, and to His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan for his timely report on the work of the Organization and for the important statement he delivered to the General Assembly. On behalf of my country, I welcome the new Members of the United Nations: the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. We congratulate them warmly on joining the great United Nations family. During the twentieth century, which is now drawing to a close, the world has been profoundly affected by many striking events. In the sphere of technology, for example, we have seen great progress leading to the expansion of communication to the point where the world has become a global village. The world rejoices at its liberation from apartheid and from colonialism in nearly all countries. Here, my delegation welcomes the endeavours of the United Nations, including its focus on the solidarity that is the foundation of our Organization, which led to that success. But those positive achievements do not mean that all has been perfect in the twentieth century. In fact, a variety of disasters and tragedies inflicted on humans by humans continue to ravage mankind. Despite scientific progress, epidemics continue to take human lives by the thousand. Two particularly dreadful world wars devastated the world. Hateful acts of genocide have been committed. In that connection, my country, Rwanda, had the misfortune in 1994 to be the victim of a genocide that took more than a million lives. Planned and organized by the government machinery of the day, that genocide was carried out in full view of the international community, which was unable to stop it. The people of Rwanda appeals to the conscience of the international community never again to permit such a tragedy anywhere in the world. We have every right to expect this. As we express that wish, investigations have been carried out by countries such as Belgium and France, and others, by the Organization of African Unity and the United Nations, are under way to identify those responsible for the genocide in Rwanda. We want those responsible to be subject to punishment throughout the world. Further, we welcome the General Assembly address by President Clinton of the United States, in which he referred to the creation of an international coalition against genocide, an idea that had been put forward at the fiftieth session by His Excellency Mr. Pasteur Bizimungu, President of the Rwandese Republic. In the wake of the genocide, nearly the entire population of Rwanda was displaced. Most Rwandese were widows, of whom 34 per cent had become heads of household. There were thousands of orphans, most of whom had also become heads of their households. Many children were involved in these acts of genocide; they deserve to be reeducated in an appropriate setting. My Government has an ambitious programme to take up the challenge of helping survivors of the genocide coexist with the perpetrators. We are fortunate today that thanks to the vigorous measures which have been taken and to the support of the international community, my Government has been able to ensure security throughout its territory, bring the refugees home and house them, get the economy back on track and ensure food security. After the genocide of 1994, Rwanda found itself with its judicial system completely destroyed and its prisons crammed with suspects. The Government therefore began rebuilding the national judicial system and collaborated in establishing international judicial machinery to deal with that heinous crime against humanity, genocide. I must pay a tribute here to the international community, which came to my country’s assistance by establishing the United Nations International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR). But we must highlight that although we welcome the establishment of the Tribunal, we regret the slowness of its trial procedures and its sometimes secretive way of choosing suspects to try. The Government of Rwanda states that it is nevertheless willing to collaborate with the Tribunal and to do everything possible to speed up its proceedings. One of the difficulties involved in arresting the criminals who committed genocide in Rwanda is that when the Government that organized the genocide fell, all its various acolytes scattered throughout the world. Fortunately, some of them have been arrested with the 27 assistance of the countries that took them in. We wish to pay a ringing tribute to the fraternal countries that have arrested and extradited criminals sought by the Tribunal for Rwanda. We urge them to continue their cooperation and call on those that have not yet been able to do so to fulfil this obligation to humankind. We note with satisfaction also that in his report (S/1999/957) on the protection of civilians in armed conflict, the Secretary-General recommends to the Security Council that it should make full cooperation obligatory between Member States with the International Criminal Tribunals for Rwanda and for Yugoslavia. We note also that this recommendation by the Secretary-General is in line with the wishes of the several speakers who have spoken up either in the Security Council or here in the Assembly, against the culture impunity. In this we find hope that there will never again, anywhere in the world, be a genocide. I would mention another very important programme by my Government: for national reconciliation and to establish the constitutional rule of law. As part of the programme, my Government has established two commissions: the National Commission for Human Rights and the Commission for National Unity and Reconciliation. The mission of these two commissions is to promote the positive values of mutual respect and national reconciliation which, along with education in participatory democracy, are the top priorities for the people of Rwanda. Concerning the democratization of our institutions, it is a pleasure for me to announce from this rostrum that the democratization process has started, with local elections, which should ensure, more than before, participation by the population in managing the business of the State. This process also has on its agenda the purpose of giving young people and women a greater role in that management. The United Nations has a Charter whose principles and purposes serve to guide us towards a world of solidarity, of harmony and security. But there have been many failures despite our common aspirations to peace. This is sufficient proof that the way in which our Organization is functioning betrays its very reason for existence. That is why, during this session, many delegations — and particularly the current President of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), Mr. Abdelaziz Bouteflika — have shown that reform of the United Nations and, more particularly, of the Security Council is both necessary and urgent. We join those delegations that have already spoken in favour of this long-awaited reform. A few moments ago I referred to the great achievements of science. Here, I could not fail to mention the concept of globalization. Convinced of the benefits of trade and between peoples, we in Rwanda believe that this new system brings with it new hopes. Nevertheless, we fear that the structural differences between our various economies will require altering the expectations of our peoples, whom globalization is supposed to serve. We therefore believe that the effectiveness of globalization will be measured in terms of how it contributes to resolving such sensitive questions as the poverty eradication, the debt burden, and peace and security. Another factor for the success of globalization is the establishment of viable regional economic arrangements through integration based on cooperation between developing countries. We are happy that Africa has already started to move in this direction, whether within OAU or the African Economic Community or in subregional organizations. We are very pleased also to note the contribution of the economic organizations in Africa, not only to the development effort but also to conflict prevention and resolution. In this connection we applaud the role the Southern African Development Community (SADC) countries have played in preventing and resolving conflicts in the subregion. We likewise applaud the regional and bilateral initiatives that have given rise to such great hopes for peace, particularly in West Africa, in the Horn of Africa, in the Middle East between Israel and Palestine, in East Timor and in the Balkan region. We do earnestly request the international community to support these efforts. I particularly applaud the efforts of the Secretary- General and the resolve he has shown in increasing the efficiency of the United Nations in the area of peace and international security. The delegation of Rwanda, for its part, contributed to the discussions of the Security Council on 17 and 30 September this year (S/PV.4046 (Resumption 1) and S/PV.4049 (Resumption 2)), on conflict in Africa. In this respect, my delegation truly appreciates the very important contribution of the President of Zambia, Frederick Chiluba, in Security Council discussions (S/PV.4047). The Agreement on a ceasefire in the Democratic Republic of Congo signed in Lusaka on 10 July 1999 (S/1999/815) is a commitment by the signatories to respect and participate fully in the peace process. Two important clauses support this agreement: first, the clause on inter-Congolese political negotiations towards a new 28 political order in the Democratic Republic of the Congo; and secondly, the clause on pursuing and disarming the armed groups, including former Rwandan soldiers and the Interahamwe militias who perpetrated the genocide of 1994 and later became integrated into the army of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The Agreement also provides for various methods by which it is to be put into effect, and also contains clauses that will help preserve it in both spirit and letter. In this respect, I recall that subparagraph b of paragraph 2 of article 1 of the Agreement requires the signatories parties to cease hostile propaganda; the goal is to ensure that the Ceasefire Agreement is respected. Nevertheless, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Mr. Ndombasi, from this rostrum, violently attacked my country, Rwanda. There is no need for me to revisit those outrageous accusations, because our representative has had the occasion to explain our intervention in the crisis in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I simply wish to respond to one of his concerns, many times repeated in his statement. The Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Democratic Republic of the Congo several times over asked this Assembly to intercede with Rwanda so that Rwanda withdraws from the Democratic Republic of the Congo. By way of response, I declare before this Assembly that Rwanda welcomes and supports the outcome of the African initiative and urges the international community to give its unconditional support to the implementation of the terms of this Agreement by all the parties, which must refrain from any violation of the ceasefire. Unfortunately, we are receiving news that the contrary is happening, for those who call for implementation of the ceasefire are the first to violate it. Nr. Jusys (Lithuania), Vice-President, took the Chair. For two years already, the Kinshasa Government has been training, equipping and enrolling in its own army ex- officers of the former Rwandan armed forces who committed acts of genocide and should be prosecuted. Furthermore, these officers, who directed the genocide, are on the headquarters staff of the army of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. As the representative of Burundi has just said, these armed elements are fomenting insecurity and propagating the idea of genocide throughout the region. Now that the Lusaka Agreement has been signed by all the parties to the conflict, we dare to hope that a United Nations peacekeeping force will be deployed as soon as possible, and that soon peace will reign in our subregion. May this Agreement enjoy the full support of the entire international community. On behalf of the people and the Government of the Republic of Vanuatu, I wish to join previous speakers in congratulating you, Mr. President, on your election to this high and important post. Your unanimous election as President of the fifty-fourth session of General Assembly shows the esteem in which the international community holds both you, personally, and your country, Namibia. The Republic of Vanuatu’s delegation is confident that you will guide the session to a successful conclusion. May I take this opportunity, through you, to express my delegation’s sincere appreciation on your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Didier Opertti of Uruguay, for his outstanding stewardship in facilitating the work of the fifty- third session. I wish to commend our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his wise leadership and dedication to the reform and restructuring of our Organization. Through you, Mr. President, we would like to assure him of our support. Four years ago, we gathered here to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization — in particular, to renew our commitment to the fundamental principles which created it in 1945. We have also made strong a commitment to further strengthen our collaborative and genuine efforts in ensuring that this Organization continues to promote global peace, justice, healthy environment, human rights, law and order, and support the process of sustainable development of its Member nations — in particular, the least developed countries (LDCs) such as those in the Pacific region, including the Republic of Vanuatu. The current international political and economic situation has grown ever more complex and demanding on our very limited and scarce resources as well as on the support available from our development partners. We are deeply concerned by the continuing escalation of international crimes of all sorts — drug trafficking, money laundering, human rights violations, terrorism, organized crime and other similar activities which have the potential of placing the sovereignty and territorial integrity of small island States at great risk. The international community must be seen to genuinely collaborate in combating these criminal phenomena if the new philosophy of globalization is to positively progress and if we are to advance into the new millennium with fresh and renewed hope to build a better future for our children. We do not believe that the world is doing us justice and the fundamental principles of peace and economic prosperity as enshrined in the Charter if we do not observe our joint call for disarmament of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. International security cannot be guaranteed if we fail to accord priority attention and resources to education, protection of the environment and good Heath of humankind and its survival into the next millennium. As a small island developing State where the ocean provides one of the most important parts of our food chain, we would like to join others in voicing our main concern regarding the management of our oceans and seas. Our participation at the Second London Oceans Workshop last December demonstrated this. We would therefore join other nations in calling for a collective affirmation by all respective Member States at this session of the General Assembly for a resolution to establish a consultative process to improve coordination and management of programmes that are associated with the protection of the oceans and the seas which are very dear to our very survival. This year my Government acceded to and ratified three International Maritime Organization Conventions which again reflects our concern for the protection of our oceans and seas. The momentum of the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization, and the lessons we have learned from past mistakes and our renewed commitment must guide us in our pursuit for a better world where, through this Organization, a renewed sense of mutual trust and genuine dialogue can he resurrected to ease the political tensions and economic crisis in all the regions and sub-regions of the planet. For our part of the world, these new developments constitute a real threat to the already vulnerable environment of our small island economies and our population. Confronted with these challenges, many 13 countries in the Pacific Region, including Vanuatu, do not have much choice at the end of the century but to embark on difficult programmes of reform, both within their respective Governments and societies. Last year, The Honourable Donald Kalpokas Masike Vanua, Prime Minister of Vanuatu, informed the Assembly that Vanuatu had initiated a Comprehensive Reform Programme with the support of both multilateral and bilateral donor agencies and countries. As we are still in the implementation stage of our reform, it is our genuine hope that it will not only be beneficial to our people but also responsive to their needs, in particular those of the 80 per cent who live in the rural areas on subsistence farming. Therefore Vanuatu would continue to need the special support being accorded to it as a least developed country. The role of Mr. Gurirab’s predecessor and of the Secretary-General in subsequently facilitating a constructive dialogue and comprehensive appreciation of the economic hardships of Vanuatu must be commended, and it is our hope that this will continue as we enter the new millennium. In this regard, the Government and the people of Vanuatu warmly welcome the recent decision of the Economic and Social Council, at its recent meeting in Geneva this year, to defer consideration of Vanuatu’s graduation from least developed country status, pending full assessment of the usefulness of the vulnerability index and ecological fragility as criteria for least developed country designation. In this connection, I am pleased to inform the Assembly that with the assistance of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), my Government will be carrying out a review of our situation in Vanuatu which we hope will assist the Committee for Development Planning in its endeavour to come up with criteria that will hopefully be accepted and adopted to determine the status of most least developed countries. We would like to register our most sincere appreciation and recognition to each and every country and group of countries for their continuous support. One of the commitments we all made during the fiftieth anniversary celebrations in 1995 was that our Organization ought to be reformed and restructured in a manner that reflects reality and the problems we are currently experiencing, so that it could be effective in addressing the issues and needs of its Member States, both individually and as a group. On this note, we want to associate ourselves with earlier statements in reference to reform and restructuring, in particular on the issue of geographical location. Here we are referring specifically to our close neighbours, Australia and New Zealand, which are considered as part of the Asia-Pacific region. From our perspective — shared, we have no doubt, by others — the United Nations must include in its reform agenda a full assessment and recognition of the inherent particularities of small island States like the Republic of Vanuatu and the impact of the international economic crisis, in particular that of globalization, on their economic performance and on the sustainability of their political stability. The pursuit and promotion of a free and responsible press, the protection of individual rights and gender equality, as noted in Mr. Gurirab’s opening remarks, are matters which are receiving more attention under the reform programme. These are real challenges to Vanuatu today, but they are challenges which we are confident we will successfully address over time, with the necessary support of the international community. The right of self-determination must also continue to occupy our agenda. As the United Nations International Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism ends next year, it is my Government’s hope that all administering Powers of the countries concerned will take appropriate steps, in cooperation with the territories, to work out some time- frame for those countries to exercise their inalienable right self-determination, self-government or independence. The United Nations, as mandated by its Charter, must be seen to encourage and support dialogue at the appropriate political levels in the regions and countries where human suffering and social disorder continue as a direct result of conflicts of opinion on the issue of self-determination. In the Pacific region, while we warmly welcomed the signing last year of the Nouméa Accord between the French Government and the major political parties in New Caledonia, we urge all parties concerned to uphold their commitment in relation to the rights and wishes of the indigenous population of New Caledonia. We welcome the decision by the French Government to allow representatives from the South Pacific Forum and representatives of the United Nations Special Political and Decolonization Committee to visit the Territory in August of this year, as outlined in resolution 53/65. We believe this new agreement and the latest developments will help to foster a stronger sense of commitment in all parties to work together to support an irreversible trend for the 14 future political status of New Caledonia — that is, its self-determination. Still in our region, while the East Timorese people have finally realized their right to self-determination, my Government notes with grave concern the deteriorating situation in East Timor following the results of the ballot at the end of August in which many human rights violations have been noted and many innocent people have lost their lives. However, my Government is pleased to note the initiatives taken by the Government of Indonesia to allow the deployment of a Security Council peacekeeping force in the troubled area and to assist in restoring normalcy and allowing the democratic process to take its course. As I said earlier on, the world and our Organization will be going through very challenging times as we prepare to turn the page of this century and start a new one. The credibility of the United Nations in the next millennium will be measured in terms of its effectiveness in responding to the real situations prevailing in its Member States, especially in small island States. The recent admission of our Pacific Island neighbours, namely the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga, to this body is a manifestation of this, and we hope that their admission not only increases the membership of the United Nations but also that they will bring with them new ideas to contribute to this important Organization. As small island States, we feel that our problems will be addressed adequately and be heard in an international Organization like the United Nations, and we join others in welcoming them to our family of nations. To conclude, let me say that it is therefore vital that we all support and supplement the process of reform spearheaded by our Secretary-General, which is aimed not only at streamlining our Organization but also at strengthening it. As we approach the dawn of the new millennium, with its unforeseen challenges, cooperation will no doubt be required between all Members in order that we may discuss and debate our common issues in this very venue.  Mr. President, the United Nations is no foreign territory to you. For 14 difficult and challenging years, you valiantly waged a diplomatic struggle at the United Nations for the freedom of our people and the independence of our country. Your sterling personal efforts and unflinching commitment could not be better crowned. The people of the Republic of Namibia are very proud to see you preside over the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. On their behalf and indeed on my own, I express our deep gratitude to all United Nations Member States for electing you President at this session. Mr. President, as you assume this very important office, you follow in the memorable footsteps of Mongi Slim of Tunisia, Alex Quaison-Sackey of Ghana, Angie E. Brooks of Liberia, Abdelaziz Bouteflika of Algeria, Salim Ahmed Salim of Tanzania, Paul J. F. Lusaka of Zambia, Joseph N. Garba of Nigeria and Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire. These distinguished sons and daughters of Africa presided over the General Assembly between 1961 and 1994. They did Africa proud and they served the international community well. You should heed the views of all United Nations Member States, large and small, rich and poor. In that way, you will have maintained and advanced even further the integrity and importance of this most representative organ of the United Nations, the General Assembly. I assure you, Mr. President, that you can always count on the loyal and unqualified support of the Namibian delegation. During your term of office, you will be flanked by another illustrious and committed son of Africa, Mr. Kofi Annan, one who hails from Ghana, a country which lit the torch of Africa’s decolonization. To you, Mr. Secretary-General of the United Nations, I express my Government’s fullest support. The Government and the people of Namibia particularly commend you for your determined efforts aimed at promoting the peaceful settlement of conflicts and bringing relief to the needy in Africa and elsewhere in the world. I wish to add my voice to that of the current Chairman of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), my brother and colleague, President Abdelaziz Bouteflika of the People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria. He placed the demands and expectations of the African people before this body, as well as their resolve to face up to the challenges which confront Africa. Guided by the spirit of the recent OAU summit held in Algiers, President Bouteflika talked about a continent which is confronted by development constraints, but whose people have not lost hope: a people who are industrious, but whose efforts to make Africa achieve its potential are being impeded by social and economic problems. It is some of these challenges that I wish to address. Today, economic disparity, debt burden, social injustice, unemployment, refugee problems and environmental degradation have become unacceptable hardships in various regions of the world. One may ask whether these burdens of deprivation have become a status quo for the majority of people in the developing countries? Have we concluded that there are not enough resources to educate every woman, man and child in this world and to keep them healthy and productive? Can all the technological achievements that are now at our disposal not be put at the service of all humanity? Words of reason have been spoken, saying that those who are affluent today owe their tomorrow to those who live in deprivation. It has been argued that the solution to underdevelopment is globalization and liberalization of the world economy. This forces all of us to be equal, while, in fact, we are not. I believe that for globalization to work it must be transformed from a mere concept into reality. It must be a collective undertaking for the benefit of all. It is only logical and, indeed, morally right that no man, woman or child should go hungry while others are 16 basking in prosperity. Globalization should not amount to protected and selective prosperity. If so, international peace and stability will be jeopardized. As long as over a billion people live in abject poverty, lack access to clean drinking water and do not know how to read and write at all, the benefit of globalization will not be universal. And the reality of inequality of States must be at the centre of any discussions of the world economy. The United Nations can and should help developing countries to maximize the benefits from a globalized economy. The biggest menace of the twentieth century has been the unacceptably high and ever-increasing poverty that denudes humanity of its dignity. I wish to recall that among the commitments made during the World Summit for Social Development, held in Copenhagen in 1995, was the commitment to halve poverty levels by 2015. Sub-Saharan Africa requires a growth rate of 7 per cent annually if we are to achieve those levels. The future looks bleak, but the determination is strong to overcome all odds and succeed. Africa carries 10 per cent of the world’s population, but produces only 1 per cent of the world’s gross domestic product. Foreign direct investment in sub-Saharan Africa is estimated at a meagre 3 per cent of all total foreign direct investment. With most of the least developed countries being in Africa, this vast, rich but underdeveloped continent continues to challenge our Organization. Poverty and disease have all become much talked about to depict the situation in many parts of Africa. Armed conflicts in various parts of Africa continue to strip our continent of its human and natural resources. This overshadows the overall achievements that Africa continues to make. Africa today is democratizing and undertaking economic reform to maximize social and economic prosperity for its people. And, indeed, some significant economic growth has been recorded in a large number of countries. However, political and economic reforms in themselves will not deliver sustained economic growth. Increased foreign direct investment is very important to complement these reforms and to sustain the current growth rate. Only then can the lives of the African people improve. Let me emphasize that foreign direct investment should not replace official development aid. In the short term, foreign aid will be a necessary complement to Africa’s own efforts for recovery and development of its people. In 1990 I attended the World Summit for Children, here at the United Nations, as the newly elected President of the Republic of Namibia. I feel proud to say that we were among the first countries in Africa to complete our national programme of action for the implementation of the Summit’s outcome. Our Parliament ratified — and, in fact, most of Africa has ratified — the Convention on the Rights of the Child, whose tenth anniversary we are about to commemorate. This embodies the legal standard with which we should comply in ensuring that children reach their fullest potential. Yet, to our dismay, too many children are being denied their childhood. When a child is subjected to armed conflict, with each and every right being taken away, then that child is placed on an equal footing with adults. And when that course takes effect, then, regrettably, society has stooped to its lowest and the rest of humanity cannot and should not stand idly by. We can and must prevent conflicts from occurring, so as to create an environment in which all children can live, play and grow up under safe conditions. Only through a culture of peace can we combat all forms of child exploitation and, in particular, put an end to the phenomenon of child soldiers. I would therefore like to stress that if every square metre of land that is inaccessible because of landmines could once again become productive, many children, especially in Africa, would be spared from hunger. And if every child soldier in Africa carrying a gun can be turned into a student, Africa’s future will have been secured. On the eve of the new millennium, we can all look back with pride on the fact that humankind has made major strides towards the betterment of the living conditions of millions across the world. The information superhighway has changed for ever the way we do business. Much of the world is now fully connected through the Internet. Notwithstanding all this, much of Africa is still struggling to gain meaningful access to knowledge and information. In addition to our efforts to become more “wired”, we are now faced with the enormous challenge of ensuring that our countries are all Y2K-compliant before 31 December 1999, in order to avert disaster. Namibia calls on all those countries which have the resources and the necessary know-how to assist developing countries in dealing with this problem. The international community needs to share knowledge because it is mutually beneficial. Developed countries have nothing to lose and everything to gain by sharing information technology with the developing countries. 17 The HIV/AIDS pandemic is eroding the socio- economic and developmental gains that many African countries have made. HIV/AIDS has been rated the number-one killer in many countries, including Namibia. My Government adopted a National Strategic Plan on HIV/AIDS for the period 1999-2004. The aim of our national plan is to reduce the incidence of HIV/AIDS significantly by strengthening efforts towards prevention and control. In addition to the existing Southern African Development Community (SADC) regional programmes, we have also undertaken other measures to ensure that there is no discrimination against all those living with HIV/AIDS. The international community should assist the efforts of the African Governments in the implementation of their national programmes to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS. Next June, we shall convene two special sessions of the General Assembly to review the progress made by Governments in the implementation of the commitments made at the Fourth World Conference on Women and the World Summit for Social Development, respectively. Let us use those opportunities to make equality among people a reality and social integration the norm, so that men and women can live together in equality and as partners. In recent years, we have witnessed a number of positive developments in the field of disarmament. However, despite these developments, we remain concerned at the lack of tangible movement on the core issue of nuclear disarmament. The central problem is the determination by nuclear-weapon States, despite their obligations under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, to retain nuclear weapons indefinitely. This is being done under the pretext that nuclear weapons are essential for national security. To make such a claim is a clear invitation to other States to acquire nuclear weapons under the same pretext, as by nature every State has its vital national security to protect. In practice, nuclear weapons have also become a means of exerting pressure on and blackmailing other countries. No State or group of States should have a monopoly on nuclear weapons. This is a new type of apartheid, which is unacceptable today. In this century, international peace and security have been challenged by the barbaric conduct of a few individuals who have offended the very conscience of humankind by committing heinous crimes. Namibia wishes to record its firm stand against all acts, methods and practices of terrorism and reiterates its unequivocal condemnation of such acts. At the Organization of African Unity (OAU) summit in Algiers, the African leaders adopted the OAU Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Terrorism. Its elimination therefore requires the close cooperation of all United Nations Member States. However, international cooperation in combating terrorism, and the measures adopted to combat it, must be based on international law, the relevant international Conventions and, above all, conducted in conformity with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. The reform of the Security Council constitutes one of the important components in the efforts to strengthen, revitalize and democratize the United Nations. The composition of the Security Council does not reflect the substantial increase in the membership of the United Nations. Furthermore, it does not respect the principles of equitable geographical representation and the sovereign equality of States. In the existing Security Council, particularly in the permanent members’ category, developing countries are grossly under-represented. To maintain such a situation is to erode the principle of democracy and fairness. Equally, a selective or partially reformed Council which overlooks the principles of equity and balance is against the spirit of the Charter. My Government is therefore strongly in favour of the position that we must correct the existing imbalances in the composition of the Security Council. It must become a democratic and truly representative institution, unfettered by the unfair tendencies and practices of the past. We support the expansion of the Security Council in both categories, permanent and non-permanent. Developing countries must adequately be represented in a reformed and democratized Security Council. Africa deserves at least two permanent seats and additional non- permanent seats in the expanded Council. Namibia, being a member of the Non-Aligned Movement, supports a reformed Council of no less than 26 members. We do not support those who advocate a lesser number on the ground of effectiveness. Experience has shown that the ineffectiveness or inaction of the Security Council has been due to the threat of veto by those who possess it, and not to the Council’s size. As a matter of policy, Namibia is opposed to the veto, because of its undemocratic nature. It cannot even be overridden by law or by procedures, as is the practice in democratic countries. The exercise of the veto perpetuates differences between members of the Council. In some instances, it has greatly contributed to division and inaction in the Security Council. In other instances, it has even prolonged conflicts and human suffering. If 18 the veto cannot be abolished now, its application should be progressively curtailed until it is removed altogether. The question of Palestine remains at the core of the problem of the Middle East. Only when the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people are restored can there be lasting peace. We welcome the resumption of the peace negotiations between the Israeli and Palestinian leaders. I reaffirm my Government’s unwavering political and diplomatic support for the Palestinian people under the leadership of President Yasser Arafat. With the end of the cold war nearly 10 years ago, we all expected to share in the peace dividend. In this connection, it is regrettable that Cuba continues to be subjected to a cruel economic, financial and commercial embargo, which must be lifted forthwith. Namibia calls for the end of the embargo so that the people of Cuba can live in peace and prosperity with all their neighbours. The people of East Timor have long yearned for their right to self-determination, freedom and independence. On 30 August 1999 their dream to determine their own future was overwhelmingly expressed in a referendum. The international community should assist the people of East Timor to complete the process towards statehood, peace, security and development. We welcome the decision of the Government of Indonesia to invite the international community, through the deployment of a United Nations peacekeeping force, to East Timor. We call on Indonesia to cooperate fully to ensure the success of that operation. With regard to Western Sahara, my Government notes the progress made towards the holding of a free and fair referendum. We call on the parties, in particular the Kingdom of Morocco, to cooperate with the United Nations so as to enable the Sahraoui people to exercise their right to self-determination. Despite the difficulties of the United Nations, my Government regards the Organization and its various agencies as the best possible instruments we have to promote world peace, international trade and increased cooperation. The admission of the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga has further strengthened our Organization. Namibia congratulates them and welcomes them into our fold. In the current international climate, the United Nations is the only voice which can bring peace to strife-torn areas, bring development to those regions where is it needed most and settle disputes between States. However, to carry out its manifold tasks and duties effectively and efficiently, the United Nations needs money and resources from all Member States, without exception. In short, the United Nations must embody the hopes and aspirations of humankind and still reflect the realities of our times.   I take great pleasure in congratulating the President on his well- deserved election, which honours him personally and his great country, Namibia. On behalf of the Ecuadorian Government and on my own behalf, allow me to greet him most cordially and wish him every measure of success. I warmly welcome the three new members of this Organization, Nauru, Kiribati and Tonga, and congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Uruguay, Mr. Didier Opertti, for the intelligent way with which he conducted the work of the previous session of the General Assembly. The border conflict between Ecuador and Peru that had prevailed since the very foundation of our republics, during the first part of the last century, was concluded on 26 October 1998 by means of a negotiation process begun 22 in February 1995. This historic event, reached by the signing of the peace agreement in Brasilia, allowed the two countries to change their relations entirely and to transform the conflict into peace and, now, to transform peace into development. Immediately upon the signing of the peace agreement, Mr. Jamil Mahuad, President of the Republic of Ecuador, put an end to the acquisition of war materials, reduced mandatory military service and, in close collaboration with Ecuadorian soldiers, reoriented the action of the armed forces toward tasks linked to development and internal security. The comprehensive peace formula, reached with the assistance of Argentina, Brazil, Chile and the United States, included not only the delimitation of the border, but also a treaty on navigation and trade, a broad-ranging agreement on the integration of borders and the establishment of a commission on building trust and security, among several other peace measures. In accordance with the agreement, Ecuador and Peru have established an institutional structure that is now fully operational in order to attain the goals of an ambitious programme that includes the construction of five bi-national roads, joint development of our river basins, the building of physical infrastructure and the achievement of a human development programme designed to improve the living standards of the residents along our borders, who during so many decades of stagnation in their territories were victims, paralysed by fear and uncertainty. To reach this goal, we have combined our efforts, convinced, at the same time, that we will be able to count on international cooperation. We hope that the border between Ecuador and Peru will serve as an example of the fruits of peace for the world. We want to see highways instead of trenches, irrigation canals instead of fortifications, hospitals instead of combat airplanes and electric plants instead of missiles and anti-personal mines. In the name of Ecuador, I call upon the international community, on each one of the member countries, on financial and development cooperation organizations and on non-governmental organizations to contribute their aid, small or large, to this new peaceful and friendly space our two Latin American nations have built. Having resolved its long-standing border dispute, Ecuador reiterates its traditional commitment to continue a permanent search for mutual agreements through the peaceful settlement of disputes and its firm decision not to become involved in any international war conflict. Within the framework of these principles, Ecuador recognizes the gravity of the armed confrontation that is searing its neighbour the Republic of Colombia, but considers that fight to be of an internal nature. Hence, it fully supports the efforts of the Government of President Andrés Pastrana to reach peace by negotiating with the rebel groups in that country. In that regard, any intention to internationalize an armed conflict whose solution concerns only the people of Colombia could be counter- productive and dangerous. The struggle for development and the efforts to combat poverty undertaken by Ecuador during the past year have been severely affected by multiple crises in the international arena and by natural disasters that strongly hit many places of the world, and Ecuador in particular. The violence of climatic phenomena makes it imperative to urgently implement a strategy for international cooperation to prevent the disastrous consequences of those natural disasters on the population, the economy and the environment. With the support of the United Nations, Ecuador has proposed the creation of an international research centre on the El Niño phenomenon that would contribute to improving the world capacity for prediction and early warning and to facilitate the adoption of protective and precautionary measures to mitigate the effects of the phenomenon. The aftermath of the El Niño phenomenon cost the equivalent of one half of our annual export revenues. In addition, the severe impact of the sharp price deterioration of our main export products, particularly oil, has caused economic stagnation, the closure of production units and the rise of unemployment. The crisis in the financial markets of Asia and Latin America has also spread its negative effects over our country, while the prosperity of other, developed areas did little to mitigate the effects of that crisis. Within that context of great difficulties, the conditions under which Ecuador renegotiated its foreign debt became extremely difficult to comply with. On 28 August 1999, the national Government used the legal mechanism of deferring for one month the payment of its Brady bonds debt service and at this time it is preparing to commence a process of restructuring these obligations that will enable it to share in a more equitable way the debt load among all the actors of this financial relationship. In 1999, poverty affects 61.3 per cent of the Ecuadorian population. Last June the unemployment rate 23 was 15.6 per cent. Four out of ten Ecuadorians have a daily income of less than $2, and two out of ten earn less than $1 per day. Global malnutrition affects more than 40 per cent of the children; one out of three do not complete the sixth grade, and 40 per cent of all children and adolescents are school drop-outs. These imbalances break social cohesion, limit the possibilities for the exercise of an effective democracy and reduce the validity of citizens' rights. The economic readjustment measures that the Government of Ecuador intends to apply will necessarily be conditioned by social development objectives, such as the reduction of poverty and malnutrition, the improvement of health indexes, the increase of access to better education, the reduction of unemployment and the increase of family income. Ecuador strongly believes that market mechanisms stimulate competitiveness and efficiency, but also that the institutional framework within which these processes take place must be capable of correcting distortions, putting limits on financial speculation and contributing to putting in place more stable and predictable systems of pricing, so that the living conditions of millions upon millions of human beings are not put at risk, and the stability and longevity of democratic regimes are not threatened by social discontent and economic crises. In Ecuador, President Jamil Mahuad and his Government have maintained democracy with a strong grip despite difficult circumstances. Social discontent from the contraction in output, natural disasters, the financial crisis, the drop in international prices for raw materials and commodities caused an increase in poverty and unleashed extensive manifestations of social discord. In facing situations such as these, we need to have an institutional economic order that gives a way out, particularly for countries with small economies, which are the most vulnerable to and most likely to be affected by extreme economic crises. On the eve of a new millennium, humankind is developing one scenario alone, a scenario not only of interdependence but also of globalization. In this global environment, all countries are involved in huge processes of market integration, liberalization of trade barriers, standardization of norms and adaptation and establishment of institutions so that they can cope. Nevertheless, globalization has so far not generated an equal distribution of prosperity, scientific progress, human health or cultural benefits. Right now, more than ever, when humankind is a single whole, we must establish shared ways to preserve, first and foremost, human dignity and well-being, the basic requirements of the human being, which are based on security and human development. One example of the effects of human insecurity are the great migratory waves that we are presently witnessing. Ecuador calls upon the General Assembly to orient cooperation strategies in terms of the human security perspective in dealing with shifts in human population that demand a better distribution of prosperity far from the extremes of opulence and destitution. Ecuador eagerly welcomes the new focus on providing a model for international policy including the notion of human security, especially at a time when the scourge of violence, drug trafficking, terrorism and environmental deterioration have become more acute and when we have witnessed armed conflicts around the world during the past year. Combating transnational crime is a shared endeavour for all civilized peoples. In particular, controlling the traffic in drugs and illicit drug consumption warrants coordinated, universal action. Ecuador has made its contribution and is prepared to continue making its contribution towards this end. It has therefore acceded to many international treaties and undertaken many international obligations, which it has fulfilled faithfully. Our country is looking forward to the Millennium Summit with great anticipation. The summit will be a historic opportunity for the community of nations at a time when the challenges of the twenty-first century oblige us to define and to affirm a common commitment to a universal project of understanding and cooperation that will inspire the United Nations in the coming century. The Millennium Round negotiations of the World Trade Organization, and other continental and regional rounds, should be processes that open up to the opportunities and challenges for creativity and effort and enable us to narrow the gap between the prosperity of just a few countries and the poverty of the great majority. Ecuador firmly believes in open markets, economic integration, foreign investment and strengthening the multilateral trading system. For this reason it has worked within the Andean Community on improving relationships with the Southern Common Market (MERCOSUR) and the European Union on negotiations for the Free Trade Area of the Americas, and on its growing links with the 24 Pacific basin, but it believes also that these processes must not ignore the individual features of the smaller countries and must strike a balance that will enable them to achieve, soon, an international system that is equitable and based on solidarity. Ecuador was the second country in Latin America to promulgate a national human rights plan, and it did so from a broad-based and democratic perspective. The plan was conceived and prepared on the basis of a consultation process in which civil society and the State participated fully. This fact has earned special recognition from the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, which described the Ecuadorian plan as a model for other countries. Our country gives national priority to the project entitled “Towards a culture of peace”. In this context, under a presidential initiative, Ecuador is promoting wide-ranging activities linked to international efforts in accordance with the United Nations culture of peace project and the proclamation of the Year 2000 as the International Year for the Culture of Peace. Over the past year the international community has witnessed an aggravation of regional conflicts: war has left deep scars in various parts of the world. In this context, the United Nations has had to play a special role in resolving international conflicts, and its concerted and decisive action has enabled it to resolve some of them successfully. Nevertheless, strengthening our world Organization's activities in this field must be carried out in such a way that all measures taken under the Charter follow its principles faithfully so that the United Nations keeps the necessary international credibility and continues to be the legitimate mouthpiece and manager for collective action to maintain international peace and security. As a party to the Ottawa Convention on anti-personnel mines, and given that it has been directly affected by the problem of anti-personnel mines, the elimination of these weapons of war is of particular interest for Ecuador. Since the signing of the peace agreement with Peru, our two countries have begun removing and destroying the mines along the border. We are sure that the international community will continue to offer its cooperation in carrying out our two countries' demining programme. On behalf of Ecuador, I thank the States and organizations that have contributed or pledged to contribute to this cause. In the light of the realities of the situation facing humankind, Ecuador reaffirms its unwavering support for the multilateral system and, consequently, for the United Nations which, since its creation, has been the universal meeting place of all nations to work for the ideals and goals shared by all peoples inspired by the purposes and principles of the Organization. Ecuador draws its inspiration from the ideal of achieving a world of peace and freedom, of social justice and development, of fruitful coexistence of peoples and nations, a world in which Governments work together to solve the complex problems besetting humankind. I extend my sincere and warm congratulations to you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth 4 session. It is indeed gratifying to see a distinguished statesman and son of Africa lead the Assembly, especially one whose country was born out of the crusade of the United Nations for the freedom of colonial peoples. Your personal devotion and commitment to the liberation struggle of the people of Namibia makes you eminently qualified to lead the United Nations in its search for peace. I am confident that your experience, talent and energies will ensure a successful outcome for the work of the session, and I assure you of my country's support in all your endeavours. I also pay a well-deserved tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, for the excellent manner in which he discharged his duties as President of the Assembly at its last session. To Secretary-General Kofi Annan, I extend my country's gratitude and support for his tireless efforts in the daunting task of finding lasting solutions to problems that face our Organization. We particularly commend him for his latest brave efforts in East Timor. Permit me also to express my delegation's profound joy at seeing three States join the ranks of the Members of the United Nations. The addition of the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga to our Organization brings closer to fruition the hope of the international community to see the United Nations comprising all the countries of the world. We say welcome to these new Members and extend to them a hand of friendship. I also wish to express my satisfaction with the Secretary-General's trenchant report on the work of the Organization. In particular, I concur with his analysis of the moral dilemma that faces the United Nations when the Security Council is unable to act, because of a lack of consensus, in the face of the most heinous human rights violations. In those circumstances, and while conflicts continue unabated in different parts of the world, the capacity of the international conflict-resolution machinery is put to a severe test. Perhaps no conflict has done this as intensely as the one in Kosovo. The Kosovo crisis represented the very disturbing trend towards the most serious violations of human rights in the form of ethnic cleansing and impunity. After the experience of Bosnia, which is still so fresh in our minds, the world could not be expected to sit back and take no action. It would indeed be a sad comment on the efficacy of the United Nations if the next millennium were to begin under a cloud of tolerance of impunity in the face of acknowledged genocide and other gross violations of human rights. While it is recognized that the conflict was an internal matter of Serbia, the dilemma was whether the world could sit idly by and watch a people being exterminated. The more difficult question that Kosovo raises is the one of the role of the Security Council in similar crises. The Charter places responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security squarely in the hands of the Security Council. That body must therefore discharge this function with seriousness and firmness. It must resist the temptation to view questions of international peace and security through the lenses of national fears and preoccupations. If it is paralyzed by parochial interests, the temptation to take unilateral action increases. The belated submission of the Kosovo issue to the jurisdiction of the Security Council is therefore very welcome, as is the United Nations involvement through its civilian administration. In a similar vein is the tragedy that is East Timor, whose denouement seems happily to be in sight. After many years of inconclusive attempts to find a solution to the problem of East Timor, the new Government in Jakarta finally paved the way by allowing the people of that sad country to exercise their right to choose. The cruel violence that was unleashed against them, however, when they did express their preference in unequivocal terms is a source of great dismay. We are grateful, therefore, that an international peacekeeping force has now entered the country and hope that it will bring the nightmare of the people of East Timor to an end. We call on the Government of Indonesia to bring to book the perpetrators of violations of human rights. We look forward to welcoming East Timor in the councils of independent States in accordance with the wishes of its people. The last decade of the twentieth century has been a time of momentous changes in all parts of the world, particularly in Africa, where for the first time unprecedented democratic changes and reforms have transformed the political landscape across the continent. We remain concerned, however, that the proliferation of conflicts in Africa has had a serious negative impact on our development capacities, as these conflicts have undermined efforts to improve the living conditions of our peoples and retarded progress towards Africa's economic, social and political transformation. 5 The situation in Angola continues to be a source of concern for the people of Africa in general and the countries of southern Africa in particular. As UNITA continues to perfect its war machine and effort, the prospects for peace have become more elusive. The people of Angola have endured hardship for more than 40 years, when the years of the civil war are added to those of a very brutal colonial war. There are millions of adults in that country who have never lived in a state of peace. Their country is richly endowed with resources, and yet these have not been harnessed for combating the many evils facing the country, but have, on the contrary, been used for prosecuting a war that has impoverished the people beyond measure. The States of southern Africa will continue to search for a solution to the Angolan crisis. In this regard, they expect to receive the support of the international community in the form of intensified sanctions against UNITA and its leader, Mr. Savimbi, and increased humanitarian assistance for the victims of the conflict. The crisis in the Democratic Republic of the Congo has equally been a source of concern for the countries of southern Africa since its inception, in view of its implications for the security of the region as a whole. Various efforts made under the auspices of the Southern African Development Community (SADC), coordinated by President Chiluba of Zambia, in collaboration with the Organization of African Unity (OAU), the United Nations and other interested parties, have started to bear fruit with the signing of a Ceasefire Agreement in Lusaka on 10 July 1999 by the heads of State of Angola, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Namibia, Rwanda, Uganda and Zimbabwe. The signing, finally, of this Agreement by the representatives of the rebel Congolese Rally for Democracy should help to pave the way for a permanent and peaceful solution. On the conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea, we wish to commend the Organization of African Unity (OAU) Secretary-General for his untiring efforts to find a durable solution to the problem. We believe that the OAU Framework Agreement remains the only viable option for the resolution of that unfortunate conflict. We, therefore, appeal to the two parties to the conflict to implement, as soon as possible, the technical arrangements worked out by the OAU, the United Nations, Algeria and the United States. We continue to support the United Nations efforts to hold a referendum to determine the true wishes of the people of Western Sahara and once more appeal to the Government of Morocco to assist the process and ensure its success in accordance with the will of the Saharawi people. In Sierra Leone we welcome the ceasefire that has been arranged under the auspices of the President of Togo. However, the settlement raises some troubling questions. It is difficult to accept that those who hold grievances against a legitimately elected Government can shoot their way into power-sharing, especially when they have been accused of the most chilling atrocities, as occurred in Sierra Leone. Certainly those who are aggrieved have a right to challenge the governance of their Government, but this should be done within the limits of constitutional order and propriety. In spite of these reservations, we wish the people of Sierra Leone well and will continue to support their efforts to establish lasting peace in their country. We also wish to congratulate the countries of West Africa under the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Monitoring Group (ECOMOG) for the sacrifices they have made to bring about peace in their neighbourhood. Regarding Palestine, all peace-loving people dream of the day when the permanent status negotiations will commence and soon be followed by a permanent peace and a permanent State for the Palestinians. We therefore encourage the parties to the Middle East conflict to persevere in their quest for the attainment of the goal which has eluded them for so long. The need to secure our global neighbourhood has never been greater. Unfortunately, the threat of weapons of mass destruction continues to bedevil our hopes for a peaceful world, and there does not seem to be a global determination to eliminate these weapons. This is so despite the fact that over the years this Assembly has adopted numerous resolutions on the issue of arms control and disarmament and in particular on the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones in different regions of the world. Unless the United Nations of the future is able to make significant progress in nuclear disarmament, it runs the risk of losing credibility as an institution dedicated to the pursuit of peace. The United Nations of the twenty- first century, therefore, should be one which can give humankind hope for a world of diminished poverty and no threat of a nuclear war. 6 Tomorrow, 24 September, marks the third anniversary of the opening for signature of the Comprehensive Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT). It has long been accepted that the future credibility of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) will depend on the effective implementation of the CTBT. Convinced of the need to enhance the institutional fabric of the CTBT, Lesotho deposited its instrument of ratification of the CTBT with the Secretary-General earlier this month, thus joining the steadily increasing number of States that have so far ratified the Convention. Lesotho supports the holding of the special conference on the CTBT, as envisaged under article 14 of that Treaty, with a view to accelerating its ratification. In the midst of all these conflict situations is the dramatic and unacceptable deterioration in the level of adherence to the norms of humanitarian law as opposite sides to a conflict indiscriminately and ruthlessly employ any and all means that might advance their ends. Civilian populations have become the main targets and direct victims of fighting between hostile armies, with women and children suffering disproportionately from atrocities that include rape, sexual exploitation, murder and the mutilation of civilians. The plight of the victims of these heinous crimes underscores the imperative for the creation of a new judicial body that would extend the rule of law in its broadest conception. Following the overwhelming endorsement by 120 nations in Rome last summer of the idea to set up an International Criminal Court, the early establishment of the Court is now a top priority. It is gratifying to see that just over a year since the conclusion of the Rome Treaty 86 States have reaffirmed their commitment to the Court by signing the Treaty, while four have already ratified it. My Government remains committed to the early establishment of the International Criminal Court and has every intention to abide by the terms of the International Criminal Court Treaty and will ratify it soon. In his report “Renewing the United Nations: A Programme for Reform”, of 14 July 1997, the Secretary- General proposed the holding of a Millennium Assembly with a summit segment in the year 2000, at which heads of State and Government could “come together to articulate their vision of prospects and challenges for the new millennium and agree on a process for fundamental review of the role of the United Nations.” (A/51/950, para. 91) For us in the developing world, the most crucial question facing the international community is how to bridge the huge gap between the haves and the have nots of this world. Unless we redouble our efforts in this regard, our endeavours to curb such social ills as crime will be in vain. By the same token, illegal immigration in search of better living conditions elsewhere, which is the direct consequence of economic inequalities, will continue to increase. It behooves us all, therefore, to treat the problem of poverty with all the seriousness it deserves, and this fact must be reflected in the deliberations during the millennium summit. The Economic and Social Council deserves our congratulations for highlighting the problem during both its high-level and operational activity segments this year. Of course, the problem of poverty has received United Nations attention on several occasions, most prominently during the social summit of 1995 in Copenhagen, when the target of halving absolute poverty by the year 2015 was agreed. Nevertheless, the problem is still with us and there are no signs that it is abating; hence the need to re- dedicate ourselves to that noble goal. As is well known, Lesotho is one of the least- developed countries. It is in recognition of that fact that we are committing a considerable proportion of our meagre resources to the war against poverty. Among other measures, we have decided to tackle educational deficiency in the country, which is one of the main contributors to poverty. In this regard, Government has been increasing the annual budget for education by 4 per cent in real terms, and this increase has had a significant impact on the delivery of education and the attainment of an adult literacy rate of 70.5 per cent. Furthermore, the Government has recently announced its intention to introduce free primary education beginning in the year 2000. What we, however, find puzzling is the scepticism of some of our development partners regarding the sustainability of the programme. If its viability were a cause for concern, we would have expected expressions of support to ensure the success of such a worthy initiative, which is in keeping with so many goals of global conferences for poverty eradication. The rampant HIV/AIDS pandemic in sub-Saharan Africa is putting an unbearable strain on already fragile health systems, eroding the gains made in child survival and the achievement of better health. The combination of HIV/AIDS and malaria is closely associated with increases in maternal mortality and the significant reduction in life expectancy in many African countries. We commend the work of the United Nations system in 7 this regard, and in particular the indication that the response of the United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, in partnership with various bodies, including the private sector, is commensurate with the gravity of the situation. The assistance of the international community is required to continue these efforts. The problem of external debt, which continues to be a developmental problem for Africa, received considerable attention at the recent Cologne Summit of the G-8, and promising decisions were taken to relieve the debt of the highly indebted poor countries. Lesotho appreciates the various initiatives to ameliorate the problem and in general supports them, including the effort to find appropriate financing mechanisms for the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative. While Lesotho has successfully endeavoured to meet its international financial obligations and commitments, my Government is now faced with a heavy and unbearable burden of debt-servicing, which is constraining our national development efforts. We therefore call for a review of the Initiative, with a view to substantially relaxing the eligibility criteria so that debt- stressed countries like Lesotho may also benefit from it. The recent sale of gold reserves by some countries has already resulted in a substantial drop in the price of gold and the consequential closure of marginal gold mines in South Africa. The overall impact has been reduced employment opportunities, not only in South Africa but also in neighbouring countries, such as Lesotho, which have traditionally depended on employment in South African gold mines. Let us take care not to create an African employment crisis so soon after the Asian financial crisis. It is incumbent upon the international community to work with affected countries to develop strategies for mitigating the negative effects of whatever mechanisms are agreed for financing the HIPC Initiative. The General Assembly decided at its fifty-second session to hold an event in the year 2001 for the purpose of addressing, in a holistic manner, the question of financing for development in both its national and international aspects and in the context of globalization and interdependence. We must face up to the fact that development is in crisis and that, unless we take bold measures to find resources for financing it, the future of mankind is bleak indeed. My delegation fully shares the view that through this process, which will also address development through the perspective of finance, the international community will be afforded a unique opportunity to start the new millennium with a momentous political gesture that demonstrates global solidarity for, inter alia, poverty eradication and the attainment of economic growth and sustainable development. It is in the interest of all countries to pursue development cooperation on the basis of genuine partnership and mutually beneficial arrangements. We remain convinced that the contemporary realities of globalization and liberalization make it clear that capital flows from developed countries not only benefit developing countries, but also combine in a dynamic process with the resources of developing countries in a manner that brings benefits to both developing and developed countries. We also want to stress that every effort should be made to narrow the gap between developing countries — in particular, the least developed countries, such as Lesotho — and the developed countries. In this regard, we await with anticipation the outcome of the review next year of the Plan of Action for the Least Developed Countries. It is worth repeating that when we adopted the Programme of Action at the United Nations International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo in September 1994, we were committing ourselves to the support of strategies aimed at enhancing the quality of life for families and individuals through recognition of their rights to quality services. The Conference was indeed a turning point that marked a departure from the notion of population control to a human-rights-based approach in addressing our demographic concerns. In conclusion, my delegation would like to rededicate itself to the principles of democracy, good governance, observance of human rights and the rule of law as the only way in which all of us can ensure a prosperous and lasting future for all our peoples.  I sincerely congratulate Mr. Gurirab on his election as President of the General Assembly at this session, the last to be held 37 before the start of the new millennium, and I wish him great success in the performance of his duties. At the same time I wish to thank his predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, for the effective way in which he presided over the previous Assembly. Spain subscribes fully to the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Finland on behalf of the States members of the European Union and should like to contribute to this general debate by presenting my delegation’s point of view with regard to the complex problems facing the United Nations at this time. I should also like to welcome the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. Spain offers them its full cooperation in the tasks that await them as new Members of the Organization. This has, indeed, been a difficult year for the Organization. Serious crises have arisen in different parts of the world and, at times, the role played in them by the United Nations has been questioned. We are all aware of the efforts made by the Secretary-General to enable the Organization fully to play the role for which it was founded in 1945. However, in certain sectors of international public opinion the idea has taken hold that the United Nations has been incapable of assuming its central and proper role in such situations. Like any human institution, the United Nations has had its successes and its failures. Nevertheless, it has been a key factor in international relations throughout the second half of the twentieth century and it continues to be so on the threshold of the twenty-first. It fulfils an essential function, which will have to be progressively strengthened as the phenomenon of globalization develops. It is indeed a unique instrument for the international relations we are sharing for the twenty-first century. It is obvious that, while acknowledging the unique value of the United Nations, we must revise some aspects of the way in which it operates. That is why the process of reform undertaken by the Secretary-General is so important. We must continue to make further progress in that direction. I should like to stress that Spain does not think of the reform of the United Nations as an exercise whose sole and essential objective is to save money. Rather, we consider such reform to be a way of enabling it successfully to meet the challenges of the new century. A key aspect of this process is the reform of the Security Council. Spain believes that such reform must pursue three basic goals. First, there must be greater transparency in its working methods, with an increase in the number and the quality of the consultations, both between the countries that make up the Council and between those countries and other Member States. Secondly, it should be more efficient, for which purpose it would be advisable to limit the exercise of the right of veto. There are instances in which the exercise of this right, or even the more or less veiled threat to exercise it, has blocked the functioning of the Security Council and prevented the adoption of essential decisions that enjoyed a broad consensus within the international community. To a large extent, that has promoted the image of the United Nations as inefficient and impotent in the eyes of some sectors of public opinion. Thirdly, it should be made more democratic, which would mean adapting the Council’s composition to recent developments in the international community. In current circumstances, and given the split between Member States, it seems possible to reach a sufficient consensus only with regard to the idea of increasing the number of non-permanent members. Spain is in favour of increasing the representation on the Security Council of all regional groups. Delays in the payment of contributions by some States are unjustifiable and endanger the very operation of the Organization at the very time when it is called upon to carry out increasingly complex tasks. It is not possible to tolerate the current level of non-payment and at the same time require the United Nations to set up the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo, to organize the transition to independence in East Timor, to establish international criminal courts, to deal with the plight of refugees, to send peacekeeping forces to various parts of the world, and to allocate sufficient resources to its numerous development programmes. I would like my Government’s position on this subject to be properly understood. Spain is the eighth- largest contributor to the Organization’s regular budget, and as such has a very direct interest in matters such as budgetary discipline and the effective use of resources. Moreover, Spain considers that all matters of concern to Member States on this issue can and must be thoroughly discussed. What is not acceptable, however, is for anyone to make payment conditional on the granting of unilateral demands. The coming Millennium Assembly will provide a good opportunity to reflect on all these issues, as well as 38 on the role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century. That Assembly, in the preparation of which civil society will participate, must likewise encourage vigorous debate yielding concrete results. That debate must, in my opinion, focus on two main issues: the elimination of poverty and the consequences of globalization. A policy to eliminate poverty involves, inter alia, a strategy of conflict prevention, sustainable development policies, good governance and the regular provision of funds for development financing. All these mean that efforts must be pooled and responsibilities shared by developed and developing States alike. Globalization is a phenomenon that involves risks, but that also creates opportunities. The risk is that the weakest countries and the most defenceless sectors of the population will be marginalized from its benefits. Clearly, decisive action by Governments is needed, along with international cooperation. Threats to cultural and linguistic plurality likewise require decisive defensive measures. At the same time, globalization also generates opportunities and benefits: economic growth, better communications and greater access to information, as well as possibilities for bringing different peoples and cultures closer together. It is especially here that the unique value of the United Nations is most striking. In the face of all these new global problems, which go far beyond the capacity of States for individual action, only a multilateral response will suffice, the result of dialogue and international cooperation. The United Nations is the most appropriate forum for this. With regard to peacekeeping operations, only the United Nations, in the final analysis, has the legitimacy necessary to authorize them. This year Spain has doubled the number of troops that it contributes to these operations; they are currently deployed in United Nations missions in Guatemala, Kosovo, Bosnia and Herzegovina and East Timor. To this should be added the large number of troops that my country has placed at the service of missions authorized by Security Council resolutions, such as the Stabilization Force (SFOR) and KFOR. Spain participated in the United Nations Observer Mission in Angola (MONUA) until its recent termination, and is now cooperating with the project to strengthen African capabilities for peacekeeping operations. As a reflection of my country’s commitment, Spain will in the next few weeks sign a memorandum of understanding on placing a rapidly deployable peacekeeping force at the disposal of the United Nations. On the eve of the twenty-first century, it is no longer tolerable to mankind’s ethical conscience that atrocities and war crimes should go unpunished. But until recently the international community had not channeled these generalized feelings into a course of concrete action. Yet again, it was the United Nations that did this, by convening the Rome Conference at which the Statute of the International Criminal Court was adopted. Spain signed the Statute, and the ratification process is now at an advanced stage. Moreover, Spain has taken initiatives to promote the signing and ratification of the treaty in order that it may enter into force as soon as possible. The United Nations has made a vital contribution to the universalization of human rights. Having been elected a member of the Commission on Human Rights for a three-year period, Spain will continue to cooperate with the United Nations in the defence of these rights in line with one of the basic tenets of its foreign policy. Closely related to this issue is the concept of human security. At a previous session of the General Assembly, Spain took the initiative to propose a draft resolution on the safety and security of international humanitarian personnel, which was ultimately adopted as resolution 52/167. The activity of the Special Committee on Children and Armed Conflict is especially important at this time, as is the significant work of the Secretary- General’s Special Representative on this matter, Mr. Olara Otunnu. The recent Security Council resolution 1261 (1999) is a major step forward in the approach to this problem. Development cooperation is undoubtedly one of the main global issues on the United Nations agenda. The special meeting on development financing planned for 2001 must be properly prepared, and the follow-up of the major conferences must continue. Spain attaches special importance to the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt (HIPC) Initiative, whose scope and depth must be enhanced. In the wake of hurricane Mitch, Spain initiated debt-cancellation programmes for the most harshly affected countries of the Central American region. My country has made a substantial effort in recent years in respect of its development cooperation programmes. Not many years ago Spain was an aid 39 recipient, while it now stands above the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development average in the percentage of its gross domestic product devoted to development. In 1998, official development assistance funds grew by 14 per cent, placing Spain among the three developed countries which had most increased these funds during the year. With regard to disarmament, the United Nations and the Conference on Disarmament will continue to prepare for a conference on small arms to be held in 2001, and will attempt to offset recent reversals in the non-proliferation regime. It is essential that the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test- Ban Treaty should speedily enter into force, and that difficulties in the preparation of the next review conference of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons be overcome. It is also necessary to conclude negotiations on a verification protocol to the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and on Their Destruction, and to address the issue of fissile materials. There are many other global issues on which the United Nations plays a vital role, such as the fight against terrorism, drugs and organized crime. However, I should like to dwell for a moment on another matter to which my Government attaches great importance: problems of ageing and of older people. Spain wishes to contribute to the debate on an international strategy on older people based on the existing model in my country. Spain has also submitted its candidacy as the venue for the second World Assembly on Ageing, which could be convened in 2002. Finally, allow me to refer to the problem of decolonization. At the conclusion of this Decade for the Eradication of Colonization, my country continues to endure the presence of a colonial enclave on its territory. Gibraltar was occupied by British troops in 1704, during one of the European wars of succession. The Territory was turned into a military base and the Spanish population was expelled. Until very recently Spanish citizens in Gibraltar suffered grave discrimination in the exercise of their rights. General Assembly resolution 2353 (XXII) backed the Spanish views on the decolonization of the Territory, recognizing that Gibraltar’s colonial situation should be settled not through self-determination, but, rather, through the restoration of Spanish territorial integrity. Unfortunately, its terms have been ignored by the colonial Power. Spain and Great Britain began a process of negotiation on all the issues, including sovereignty, based on the 1984 Brussels Declaration, but no significant progress has been made. Spain has made a proposal to the United Kingdom that takes into account the interests of the inhabitants of the colony and would allow for the recovery of sovereignty over the Territory after a lengthy period, so far without reply. My Government will continue both its dialogue with the United Kingdom and cooperation with the decolonization Committee in following up on this issue. From the crises the world has lived through this year, we must learn certain lessons. One is without doubt that the political resolution of the crisis in Kosovo has only been possible thanks to the United Nations, which faced an urgent challenge, and on the success or failure of its response depends to a large extent the public image of our Organization. In the Western Sahara Spain has supported with concrete measures the action of the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO), and also the Secretary-General’s settlement plan. It is willing to increase this support if asked to do so by the Organization and if the parties directly involved agree. The new possibilities in the Middle East after the signing of the Sharm-el Sheikh Memorandum are seen by my country with great hope, and we are firmly committed to continue cooperating with all sides so that the process begun in Madrid continues on track. Other regions of the world have suffered particularly during this past year. Unfortunately, this is especially true of Africa, and therefore I wish to emphasize my country’s support for the integrated approach taken by the Secretary-General in treating the causes of the conflicts and promoting peace on that continent. Finally, the most recent challenge to the United Nations is the situation in East Timor. Spain welcomed the adoption of Security Council resolution 1264 (1999), and is willing to contribute to the multinational force to guarantee security in the Territory. My country, likewise, has announced a special contribution to the fund established by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees(UNHCR) to deal urgently with the acute humanitarian situation and the refugee problems on the island. 40 The Organization’s undertakings are sometimes visible, at other times hidden, but they are always indispensable. The citizens of our countries must value them so that the United Nations may enjoy the backing that it needs in order to perform its important duties effectively. On the threshold of the twenty-first century, Spain reiterates yet again its firm commitment to the Organization and its willingness to put its capacity for external action at the service of the purposes and principles enumerated in the Charter.First of all, I would like to extend to you, Sir, my warm congratulations on your election to the helm of our General Assembly at its fifty- fourth session. We are confident that, in view of your long experience in the affairs of our Organization, we may look forward to a fruitful and constructive year for the work of the General Assembly and its Main Committees. Allow me also to thank Mr. Didier Opertti, who led the General Assembly at its fifty-third session with remarkable distinction and efficiency. To the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, we wish to express our sincere gratitude for his dynamic leadership and his continued efforts to promote durable peace and security. Furthermore, I would like to join previous speakers in welcoming the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga as new Members of the United Nations family. The ongoing globalization process has increased the influence of markets, benefiting a small group of countries, their corporations and people. At the same time, it has marginalized the majority of developing nations, in particular the small and vulnerable ones, undermining decades-long efforts by these countries to create economic well-being, social justice and sustainable human development. It has, furthermore, eroded trade preferences and challenged and undermined the basic principles of international cooperation. It has also eroded international commitments to financing for development through the non- fulfilment of agreed targets of official development assistance and through the reduction in contributions to the core resources of the different programmes and funds of the United Nations system. The drop in prices of primary commodities to their lowest level in a century and a half and the reduction of official development assistance have brought many Governments in developing countries face to face with the dangers of not being in a position to address in a satisfactory manner the just socio-economic demands of their respective peoples. In many cases, this has triggered social unrest and political instability and hampered efforts to achieve sustainable development. Access to financing for development has been rendered more difficult, since the flow of private capital resources has been limited to certain regions and to a few developing countries, resulting in a further widening of the gap between developed and the majority of developing countries. As a consequence of this widening gap, poverty continues to rise, leading to increased migration, environmental deterioration, political conflicts and instability, which eventually will have long-term negative consequences not only for developing, but for developed countries as well. The international community therefore has a moral obligation to ensure that these negative influences of globalization are contained so that the benefits of globalization are shared among all nations. It must also guarantee special and differential treatment to small, vulnerable developing countries in the international system. Such treatment must, specifically, extend to the financial, monetary and trading system, in order to support these countries in successfully adjusting to the demands of globalization. The traffic in illegal drugs has become a serious threat to the national security of many nations, in particular the small and vulnerable ones such as Suriname, because it promotes violence, corruption, money-laundering and illegal arms trafficking. In this way, countries can be manoeuvred into dangerous waters and be accused of interference in the internal affairs of others. It has become practically impossible for Suriname, with its limited resources, to combat this scourge on its own. We are therefore actively pursuing bilateral agreements with friendly nations to assist us in this difficult task. In this context, I would mention the agreement on cooperation in maritime law enforcement which we recently signed with the Government of the United States of America. We will continue to work closely with our neighbours, with friendly nations and with the relevant regional and international institutions to contribute to the ongoing fight to eradicate this evil from our region. The information superhighway, the Internet, is nowadays the means of choice for the exchange of information, with a great impact on the social and economic life of the international community. This new form of technology offers great possibilities for accelerated development in many fields. At the same time, however, we should note that the development of this technology involves the risk of further marginalizing vulnerable economies. In addition to the positive effects of the Internet, we see that the adverse effects on trade, the ever widening gap in the field of education, the threat to social and cultural values and the abuse of this technology by people with malicious intentions often cause great concern in third world societies. I am convinced that in applying innovative technology, equal attention should be given to the negative effects for societies with limited or no access to it. I therefore urge the United Nations to ensure that this disparity, with its far-reaching consequences in the socio-economic, educational and cultural fields, is 12 eliminated by augmenting the availability of and access to this technology. Furthermore, it is of great importance to set up a legal framework to prevent the abuse and crime which can emanate from use of the Internet. The Surinamese Government is of the opinion that its foreign policy must be fully at the service of its social and economic development. In our view, the State should no longer fulfil the role it has traditionally performed of bearing full responsibility for development strategies and acting as a dirigiste and sometimes even as a welfare State: development requires a State which is effective, fulfils the role of catalyst and facilitator, and encourages and complements the activities of the private sector. Good governance is not a luxury, but an absolute necessity. In addition, I should say that without an effectively operating State it would be impossible, from both the economic and the social points of view, to implement a policy for sustainable development. For development does not presuppose that there will be only the appropriate economic, social and technical inputs: in today's world, sustainable development and welfare can be attained only if regulations in a country are supportive so that the State can contribute to the effectiveness of the intended development. It is my Government's objective to develop our natural resources in cooperation with identified partners in the international community in such a manner that the environment and the ecosystem will be preserved for future generations. In this light, may the unique decision by Suriname to offer almost 10 per cent of its territory as a gift to humankind by creating a nature reserve of nearly 1.16 million hectares, serve as an example. The environment and its biodiversity shall, especially in this nature reserve, always be fully protected. The Government of Suriname is convinced that effective democratic structures are fundamental to a satisfactory enjoyment of democracy, so conditions have been created for the fullest development of Suriname's citizens. Since the beginning of its period of administration, the Government has devoted itself to strengthening democratic institutions and anchoring the rule of law. Law and justice, and effective institutions to implement them, are the basis for the comprehensive and balanced development of the nation. My Government's policy is aimed also at promoting and safeguarding fundamental human rights and freedoms. Thus, we are creating ideal conditions for the optimal employment of human and natural resources in the interests of the development of our nation. We realize that democracy, development, peace and social progress do not enjoy special attention only within the borders of Suriname, but that the international community, more particularly the United Nations, thoroughly examines, promotes and safeguards them. On 25 May 2000, the Surinamese people will decide, through general and free elections by secret ballot, on the appointment of a national Government at the highest level of State. My Government and the independent institutions designated by law are engaged in preparations for the approaching elections. In this respect, we know we have the support of the Organization of American States and the United Nations, as well as other international organizations. Talks on possible financial assistance by the European Union are in a phase of conclusion. The primary goal of the Government is to hold general and free elections, with the greatest possible care, by secret ballot, and once again to confirm to the world Suriname's excellent reputation in this field. Our world is closing this millennium, in which humankind has made enormous progress in science and technology, enhancing its capacity for its own security and survival. The millennium has been an era of untold human suffering caused by wars waged between and within States, with the means capable of destroying all that which the human race has so far achieved. It has also been an era in which many developing countries gained constitutional independence. Unfortunately, however, it has not brought them economic independence and hence actual decolonization. Consequently, their full participation in developments relating to the formation of economic blocs was seriously impeded. This millennium has also seen the birth of a unique world Organization, the United Nations, to assist us in overcoming the threat of complete destruction. Let us allow this unique instrument to assist humanity in achieving its noble desire for a peaceful world — a world with equitable economic, trade and development systems; a world with a protected and safe environment and ecosystem; a world in which human rights and fundamental freedoms are protected, promoted and guaranteed to all its citizens; a world with adequate development opportunities for everyone; a world in which human potential can be fully developed, irrespective of race, sex, creed or religion; and a world from which all tendencies and signals regarding recolonization originating from former colonizers are banished. 13 Let us all, upon entering the new millennium, contribute wholeheartedly to these noble goals.  Let me first extend sincere congratulations to you, Sir, as the new President of the General Assembly. I am confident that your rich diplomatic experience and the reputation you enjoy will play an important role in leading the Assembly’s work. I would also like to give credit to Mr. Didier Opertti of Uruguay for the great skill and persistence he showed in presiding over the work of the fifty-third session of the General Assembly. May I also welcome the three new Member States of our Organization, Kiribati, Nauru and Tonga. The United Nations is richer for their membership. We are only one year away from the Millennium Assembly, an event whose symbolism should inspire us to strive harder to achieve all the goals of the Organization. In looking forward to the challenges of the future, our countries also realize that the world continues to hold many dangers. It has been rightly said that globalization has two faces. While accounting for an increasingly complex web of linkages across the full spectrum of human endeavour, it has also led to increased alienation and, in some cases, disparity. Quite clearly, the United Nations is at the forefront of efforts to address and reconcile these complex processes. The struggle to raise and improve the quality of life of the hundreds of millions who continue to suffer the anguish of poverty, the protection of our precious environment, the strengthening of democracy and the protection of human rights, responding effectively to natural disasters, further 13 progress in disarmament and dealing properly with security crises as they arise all continue to occupy us. Having mentioned the issue of security, allow me to observe that the situation in South-Eastern Europe has come full circle with the return of the epicentre of the crisis to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Kosovo, where it started more than a decade ago. The military intervention of the international community, supported by all the countries of the region, including Croatia, must now be followed up with an appropriate political response. Just as we joined the international community in condemning violations of human rights, it is clear that energies must now be concentrated on building a lasting and just peace. With regard to the security issue of Prevlaka, as with other matters resulting from the aggression and territorial pretensions of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, bilateral negotiations have been unsuccessful. The simple reason is that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia does not wish to accept Croatia's internationally recognized borders. Only when the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia accepts Prevlaka as a purely security-related issue instead of considering it a territorial dispute, and refrains from abusing this issue in internal Serbian-Montenegrin relations, will a solution be at hand. The opening of border crossings with the Republic of Montenegro has, by allowing for the freedom of movement of people and goods, significantly contributed to regional stability and helped the democratic transformation of Montenegro. Croatia has proposed the establishment of a bilateral security regime as a follow-up to the present one administered by the United Nations Mission of Observers in Prevlaka (UNMOP). Whether as a result of successful bilateral negotiations with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, of a Security Council resolution or even of unilateral action consistent with the rights and duties of Croatia under international law, the UNMOP mandate should be terminated soon. Further prolongation of the mandate will only serve those who wish to stall negotiations indefinitely, which is contrary to good- neighbourly relations and the interests of stability in the wider region. The key legal issue arising from the disintegration of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia remains that of succession. As long as this matter is unresolved, the prospects for lasting normalization in the region will be hampered for all the successor States. Responsibility for this state of affairs lies squarely with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which keeps rejecting the conclusions of the United Nations/European Union Conference on the Former Yugoslavia, as well as the relevant resolutions of the Security Council and the General Assembly. Only if rooted in this existing body of international law and authority can the question of succession be resolved. Pending a full resolution of this issue, the normal economic processes that might otherwise promote stability and cooperation cannot have a positive effect, either on the region or on bilateral relations. Over the past year, Croatia has persevered in its determination to enlarge and enrich the content and scope of its special bilateral relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am particularly pleased to be able to inform the Assembly that we have recently resolved one of the hitherto open questions in our relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina: an agreement has been signed settling the issue of our common border. Croatia will continue both to support the implementation of the Dayton agreements regarding Bosnia and Herzegovina and to maintain its commitment to ensuring the rights of the Croats, as the least numerous of its three constituent peoples. Following a slow initial response, there has been a proliferation of both national and multinational initiatives throughout the second half of the 1990s aimed at ensuring long-term stability in South-Eastern Europe. The new Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe builds upon the sound foundation provided by the prospect of the inclusion of the States of the region in the Euro-Atlantic integration processes. However, its success will depend upon an individual evaluation of the progress being made by the respective States, an evaluation which should be based upon simple, clear and transparent criteria. My country has welcomed the Pact as an important development involving all the relevant international actors and seeking a comprehensive solution. In the view of Croatia, the strengths of the Pact — provided that it is implemented to the letter — are, first, its comprehensiveness and, secondly, its vision of integrating the participating States into the Euro-Atlantic structures. In this way, we hope that it will marshal the hitherto dispersed energies of the international community. Croatia lends its full support to the process related to the Pact and reiterates its determination to continue to take an active role in its implementation. 14 The joint success of the United Nations and the Croatian Government in peacefully reintegrating the previously occupied part of eastern Croatia early last year has been followed by the gradual return of displaced persons to their homes, not only in that region, but also to other areas of Croatia. It is a complex process involving the return of Croats to their homes in the previously occupied areas, and the return of Croatian Serbs to their homes from other countries and from eastern Croatia to other parts of the country. While the difficult economic circumstances, particularly in the areas of return, are certainly not helping the process, they are affecting all citizens equally. In spite of these objective circumstances, the national Programme for the Return and Accommodation of Displaced Persons, Refugees and Exiled Persons is being successfully implemented and has resulted in the return of 65,000 Croatian Serbs. Croatia maintains intensive relations with the International war crimes Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. It has taken numerous steps, from providing documentation and access to alleged crime sites to assisting in the voluntary surrender of indicted persons to the Tribunal. Whenever a legal dispute has arisen, Croatia has sought ways of resolving it through proceedings within the Tribunal Chamber itself. However, while it has lent its full support and cooperation to the Tribunal, Croatia is not fully satisfied with the results to date. Indictments issued so far do not adequately reflect the true nature and scope of the war crimes committed by different sides in the conflict. The unusual delay in bringing persons in custody before the court — in some cases more than two years, despite the initial assurances of speedy trials — has not strengthened the Tribunal's credibility. No one has been charged for the crimes committed against Bosnian Croats — despite assurances given as long ago as the Dayton negotiations — and no one has been sentenced for crimes committed during the aggression against Croatia, despite ample evidence and 14,000 deaths. Allow me to repeat what I have said on previous occasions in this forum. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia continues to harbour the notorious war criminal Mile Martic and the perpetrators of the most heinous war crimes committed in Vukovar — Mrksic, Sljivancanin and Radic. Its stance overtly defies the will of the Security Council, the international community and justice in general. It also poses a big obstacle to the reconciliation process. We have witnessed tremendous advances during the twentieth century. However, many challenges remain, particularly if we are to eradicate poverty, protect our environment, and promote and achieve sustained social development and economic growth. The recent important deliberations and work of the Economic and Social Council have confirmed that the Council is an important forum for addressing the manifold issues arising from globalization. Croatia believes that implementation of the negotiated outcomes in the broad subject areas of sustainable development is the key to promoting the global agenda of leaving a healthy planet Earth for future generations to enjoy. The system of international conferences, now undergoing their five-year reviews, and the United Nations system as a whole, have a leading role to play in this regard. It is with all these factors in mind that Croatia has chosen the Economic and Social Council as the first principal body to which to present its candidature. Our hopes and goals for the future notwithstanding, the world is still encumbered with the legacies of the twentieth century. The scourge of war and all that violent conflicts bring with them are still a clear and ever-present concern. The United Nations must be ready to cope with these challenges. This inevitably requires reform of the Organization. There is, of course, a broad consensus about the need for reform, but as always, the devil is in the details. The United Nations needs to have mechanisms at its disposal to address the issues arising from the new international order in a timely and efficient manner. The reforms within the competency of the Secretary-General are moving ahead. The Member States should now grasp the symbolism of the new millennium in order to conclude the reform process. The reform of the Security Council remains stalled. The primary task of the Council, the maintenance of international peace and security, makes its representation and transparency, and hence its reform, highly important. Questions related to mine clearance and to the destruction of anti-personnel and other types of mines are a matter of special concern to Croatia. In spite of the fact that much work is being done to alleviate this problem, hundreds of thousands of mines still lie scattered over 6,000 square kilometres of Croatia's territory. Having ratified the Ottawa Convention last year, Croatia was pleased to host a regional conference on anti-personnel mines in Zagreb in July this year and thus share its 15 experience and expertise directed at ridding the world of these terrible weapons. The United Nations is best known for its peacekeeping role around the world. Croatia, which has hosted five separate peacekeeping operations on its territory, has in recent weeks taken on the role of a contributor of peacekeepers. As we have announced in the past, through its participation in the United Nations mission in Sierra Leone Croatia will now be able to repay in kind the good deeds previously bestowed on it. The Croatian Government is honoured by this responsibility and is confident that its soldiers will be exemplary members of the United Nations force. Additionally, we welcome the evolutionary developments in the area of peacekeeping, from the use of civilian police and preventive forces to the “White Helmets” proposal. The promotion and protection of human rights requires constant vigilance and effort by all responsible Governments. The Croatian Government, through its National Committee for Human Rights Education, in cooperation with the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and experts from the Council of Europe, is preparing a national programme on human rights education targeting schoolchildren at the primary and secondary levels. Croatia continues to follow closely the progress being made towards establishing an International Criminal Court. The establishment of an efficient, permanent International Criminal Court will be a milestone in the march towards the universal protection of human rights and the rule of law. Croatia has signed the Statute of the Court and looks forward to other States doing so, too, so that this great achievement of the international community can commence its operation as soon as possible. The present session of the General Assembly will be vital in preparing for the coming Millennium Assembly. It is important that this Assembly be well prepared so that it is an event of substance rather than of ceremonial character. Croatia hopes that it will be a real crossroads and that it will succeed in providing guidelines for a better and more tolerant world in the coming millennium. Allow me to conclude by noting that Croatia is looking forward to the work of the fifty-fourth session, hopeful that it will bring further progress in addressing the challenges and grasping the opportunities of our times.  I am delighted to have the opportunity at this fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly to share with the entire international community the concerns — but also the hope — that inspire the nation of Niger in the progress of world events. The Niger welcomes the new Member States — the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga — to membership of the United Nations community. I would also like to say how proud and pleased we are, Sir, over your unanimous election as President of the General Assembly for this session. On behalf of the delegation of the Niger, I wish to sincerely congratulate you and the other members of the Bureau. Your professional skills and your well-known human qualities, as well as your unceasing commitment to your country, Namibia, and to the defence of the noble causes of humanity, guarantee the successful outcome of the Assembly’s work. My delegation also has the agreeable duty of paying a well-deserved tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, for the excellent work done during his term of office. 9 The presence at your side of Secretary-General Kofi Annan, whose devotion and constant desire to serve the causes I have mentioned are well-established, reinforces our conviction that the outcome of this session will make it possible to lay a sound basis for the future of a world that is less unjust, more peaceful, more prosperous — and, in a word, more human. The Niger is a landlocked, heavily indebted country which has for almost a decade suffered from chronic institutional instability. This situation has seriously undermined its people’s efforts to establish a viable political, economic and social environment. Since its accession to independence in August 1960 the Republic of the Niger has experienced profound upheavals which have affected its progress towards the establishment of a democratic, harmonious and prosperous society. But these upheavals, far from weakening the democratic ideal of our people, have strengthened its resolve to overcome these challenges. Strengthened by this conviction, the Council for National Reconciliation and the Government resulting from the events of 9 April 1999 have made the strong commitment that the people of the Niger, at peace with itself and possessing stable and durable democratic institutions, will be able to meet the challenges of the third millennium. On 18 July, in a referendum, the people of the Niger adopted the Constitution of the Fifth Republic, which will lead to the establishment of lasting democratic institutions. The timetable decided on by our Independent National Electoral Commission sets the first round of presidential elections for 17 October. The second round will be held at the same time as the general elections, on 24 November. The investiture and assumption of office of the President- elect of the Republic will take place on 31 December 1999. In this respect, every step has been taken to organize the elections in the most transparent, honest and neutral way possible. The measures taken include a ban on the military’s submitting candidates for the presidential and general elections, even if those candidates are on leave of absence or have resigned from the military. The Government will ensure that the elections are held in a spirit of impartiality. With this same aim, the Independent National Electoral Commission was institutionalized and a national communications monitor set up to guarantee equal access to public media and to ensure that the press is free and constructive. Basically, therefore, our political transition is on the right track, and the instruments for this transition will be active until power is handed over to the duly, freely elected authorities. In view of all this, we hope that our traditional external partners will help us establish true democracy in the Niger. We expect their support, which is necessary to help us in the process of establishing dialogue among all parties concerned to guarantee the holding of credible, honest elections. But as the Assembly is aware, democracy does not just mean holding a series of elections. A legal arsenal and a different way of thinking are essential to consolidate democracy, and this is why we have started giving organized, concerted consideration to the drafting of basic texts that will govern the future Republic. Varied and burning issues, such as the depoliticization of the administration, the electoral code, the charter of political parties, the status of the opposition and the role of the army in a democratic context have been tackled. In this context, I call upon interested States to take part in the national workshop to be held next December on the theme “The army and democracy in Africa: the case of the Niger”. I wish very sincerely to thank all bilateral and multilateral partners of the Niger, in particular United Nations agencies, and more specifically the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), for having continued to support my country’s efforts to create the right institutional environment to restore social peace and to enable men and women of the Niger to meet the major challenges they face. This highly appreciated assistance will continue to be necessary in this decisive phase of the democratic process and the process of national reconciliation. The recurrent theme of post-conflict insecurity deserves special attention from the United Nations system. The Niger, resolutely committed to the process of cantonment, disarmament and socio-economic reintegration of elements of the former rebel army which rampaged in the north and far east of the country a few 10 years ago, fully supports the programme for collecting and destroying small arms. It is in this spirit that my country submitted to the Secretariat a plan to put an end to the illicit circulation of small arms and light weapons. It endorsed the decision taken by the Organization of African Unity (OAU) in June 1998 and the declaration adopted by the heads of State and Government of member countries of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) in October 1998 to deal with the destabilizing effects and the threat to peace and security posed by the illicit circulation of small arms and light weapons for the West African region and for the entire continent. We welcome the emerging concordance of views and action regarding the priority nature of this question among African organizations on the one hand, and other international institutions — including those of the United Nations system, the European Union and the Organization of American States — on the other. This international consensus will make it possible to take effective steps in time for the upcoming international conference on all aspects of the illicit arms trade, to be held in 2001. The Niger has always sought to make its modest contribution to the settlement of conflicts that threaten peace and security in Africa and throughout the rest of the world. Despite our limited resources, we sent troops to Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea-Bissau, as well as civilian police officers to Haiti. In this regard, my Government wishes to reaffirm its constant willingness to send military and police contingents to all United Nations peacekeeping operations when needed. In Africa, thanks to the efforts of the international community, we have reason to hope that the process leading to the referendum on self-determination for the Sahraoui people will soon lead to a final settlement of this question. The conclusion of the Peace Agreement in Sierra Leone under the aegis of ECOWAS and the Ceasefire Agreement in the Democratic Republic of the Congo have given us a glimmer of hope. These efforts must be continued and must serve as an example for those involved in other conflicts, such as in Angola, in Somalia or in the armed confrontation between Ethiopia and Eritrea. It must be acknowledged that these situations of crisis and insecurity demand first and foremost that African Governments and leaders of public opinion commit themselves resolutely to dealing with factors of instability on a consensus basis. In this respect, my Government and my people would like through me to welcome the individual and collective initiatives to create or consolidate an environment of peace and security in Africa, which is a sine qua non for development. Outstanding and effective initiatives have been taken in various places and should be welcomed. Among these is the action initiated by President Abdelaziz Bouteflika of Algeria, who had the praiseworthy idea of holding on 16 September last, a referendum on civil concord, which was massively supported by the Algerian people. The Government and the people of the Niger welcome this genuine plebiscite and the prospects it ushers in for that fraternal country. The Niger also welcomes the positive developments in the Lockerbie case. We believe that conditions now exist for the total lifting of sanctions against the great Socialist People’s Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. In the Middle East, the attention of the international community is still focused on the Israeli-Palestinian peace process, which, fortunately, seems to have been revived with the change in the leadership of the Israeli Government. In Asia, the Jammu and Kashmir conflict remains a source of great tension between two nuclear States, India and Pakistan, and a persistent, serious threat to peace and security in that part of South Asia. The Niger, therefore, as a member of the contact group established by the Organization of the Islamic Conference, reiterates its appeal to both parties to step up their negotiations in order to reach a peaceful settlement of the conflict by recognizing the Kashmiri people’s right to self-determination pursuant to the relevant resolutions of the United Nations. In Europe, my Government welcomes the return of peace to the Balkans. The establishment of an administration under United Nations control is a sure guarantee for the safe return of the refugees. It is more essential and urgent than ever to reverse the decline in official development assistance which, it must be recalled, is at its lowest level in 50 years. In order to meet this challenge, the international community must consider the possibility of mobilizing additional resources. It is therefore urgent that progress be made within the framework of the initiatives taken at world summits. At the same time, we must pool our efforts to increase the effectiveness of aid by reviewing its modalities and through its sound and rigorous management. It is on the basis of this experience that my Government adopted a national strategy note and an economic recovery programme that clearly defines the coherent networks for action by our development partners. Furthermore, the crucial problem of African countries’ debt — which is wiping out all development efforts — calls for the international community as a whole to implement, without delay or conditions other than good public administration, appropriate regulatory policies and mechanisms. In this connection, the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt (HIPC) Initiative of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF), as well as the recent initiative undertaken in Cologne at the Group of 7 Summit, must be extended to all the least developed countries in order to produce the effects we hope to see. This must take the form of an outright cancellation of the debt. Despite the outstanding efforts made by many African countries in the area of economic reform, foreign private investment flows are still meagre, notwithstanding the enabling environment that has been established. We very much hope that the positive initiative taken by the Secretary-General at Davos will allow greater involvement by the private sector in implementing adequate measures to reverse that tendency. It is in this connection that my delegation would like to appeal to all development partners to help reinforce the institutional capacities of our States and to create adequate infrastructures, which are guarantees of balanced development. The second special dialogue between the Economic and Social Council and the Bretton Woods institutions held here on 29 April 1999 reaffirmed the need to continue the reform of the international financial system, bearing in mind social imperatives and the external debt situation, that is to say, the close link between settling debt, poverty reduction and lasting development. Niger belongs to the group of least developed countries and has a population that is growing at an annual rate of 3.4 per cent. It has a fertility rate of 7.4 children per woman and a life expectancy of 47 years, and is ranked among the poorest countries of the world. Despite all these constraints, my country has made efforts to design and implement initiatives in keeping with the recommendations of the population conferences. These various difficulties have exacerbated the political instability I referred to before and have kept our country at the bottom of the human development table. Poverty affects 63 per cent of our compatriots, 34 per cent of whom live below the extreme poverty threshold. Those people are victims of continued declining maternal, childhood and adolescent health standards — a critical social and health situation marked by high mortality and illiteracy rates, one of the lowest standards of education and insufficient drinking water resources. They even lack basic social services. The economic and financial crisis that has hit my country has, among other things, led to a drastic reduction in public investment, particularly in the social sectors, thus depriving 80 per cent of the rural population of adequate living standards. With the valuable assistance of international financial institutions we have initiated an enormous economic recovery programme to confront this situation. This programme includes, among other things, a series of economic and financial reforms and framework programmes to restore the macroeconomic balance, reduce poverty and stimulate growth. I wish, from this rostrum, to reiterate our great appreciation for the ongoing support that the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and other development partners have been steadily providing to implement our national framework programme to combat poverty. This programme we are implementing is one of the priorities of the first country cooperation framework adopted by the UNDP Governing Council last January. I would like here to make a heartfelt appeal to the United Nations system to allocate sufficient supplementary resources to UNDP, UNICEF and UNFPA so that they can complete their development activities in the least developed countries. This appeal also goes out to the international community to supply all the necessary support to my country so that the major challenges we are confronting can be met. At the dawn of the twenty-first century, special attention should be given to making a reality of the universality of our world Organization. Peace, security and development are too important to be the sole responsibility of a club of military, economic and 12 financial Powers. Africa, which now figures prominently among international initiatives and hopes to become an active partner in those initiatives, must play an important role within a reformed Security Council. Africa has countries that can play a decisive role in that regard. A large number of countries, including my own, that share the use of French with other States of the world very much hope that they can work in all United Nations bodies and agencies in their official language. The member States of the Organisation international de la Francophonie, which is increasingly establishing itself as an essential actor in world affairs, will make an additional contribution in the give-and-take process in the third millennium. In conclusion, I should like to express the confidence that Niger and its people have in the United Nations, which is trying very hard to be an institution that embodies hope on the basis of justice, equity, peace, freedom and progress. These values will build the coming twenty-first century we are expecting if the United Nations is stronger and more effective.  Mr. President, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of San Marino, I wish to congratulate you on your election to the presidency of 21 the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. You represent a geographical region, the African continent, which can significantly contribute to identifying the major causes of world problems and help to evaluate their effects. You can lead this Organization towards desirable and concrete results. A particular acknowledgment goes to President Didier Opertti. San Marino had the opportunity and privilege to work in close cooperation with him and to ascertain his undeniable and extraordinary skills and the remarkable accomplishments reached during his mandate. Finally, I would like to congratulate the three new States which have recently joined the big family of the United Nations. I am deeply convinced that countries never involved in wars possess an inestimable richness and can transmit to the whole world their history of peace and tolerance, helping us reach the goals set forth in the preambular paragraphs of the Charter. The Republic of San Marino believes that the United Nations is, and must remain, the forum for international negotiations best suited to the nations’ expectations. We reiterate its central role in the prevention and management of international crises, particularly in the field of peace and security, through the necessary updating process of its main operative organs, and primarily the Security Council, which should never be delegitimized. The Council’s reform, in the context of a larger reform of the United Nations system, is a fundamental step in the construction of the new international structure. The reform originated from the need to update the composition and the modus operandi of the most important United Nations organ to operate in a deeply changed international environment. We are particularly thankful to the Secretary-General for courageously proposing, and partly already accomplishing, a complete, wide-ranging programme of reforms to strengthen the United Nations. This programme will progress because only an Organization in constant evolution will be able to prevent, in some cases, and to tackle, in others, the challenges of the next millennium. San Marino feels internationally responsible and it feels the need to mobilize all its strength to find solutions of solidarity to the serious problem of the external debt of developing countries. Faced with 3 billion people who still live with less than $2 a day, faced with 130 million children without access to education and 1.5 billion people without drinking water, we must support action aimed at creating sustainable development and healthy economic policies. The imbalance between rich and poor countries must not become irreversible, with tragic consequences for all humankind. San Marino shares and supports the series of programmes and plans announced and applied by creditor countries and by the major world financial institutions to tackle this serious emergency. Programmes and plans have so far shown themselves to be insufficient to tackle the problem of debt in a decisive way. We hope that the United Nations will intensify the debate aimed at an equitable and durable solution to the problem. In particular, we hope that the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council will represent the best laboratory of ideas for its definition. San Marino shares the ethical approach to the situation through solidarity and development. We believe this will give more hope to the people affected by this heavy burden. In the past year the Republic of San Marino was one of the first countries to ratify the Statute of the International Criminal Court, convinced that such an institution is indispensable for the future world order. In international society, it represents not only a political advance, but moral progress, too. The Republic of San Marino has recently established a permanent court of arbitration, trusting it will become a trustworthy and impartial international instrument for the resolution of national and international disputes. We are convinced that such an instrument will be duly evaluated by all Member States of the United Nations and that they will shortly be able to subscribe to a proper convention. We further believe that this initiative could represent a significant contribution by our country to the international community. At the outset of the third millennium, we still find disconcerting the coexistence of a large, consolidated corpus of humanitarian laws and human rights and the spread of atrocities beyond all limits, affecting almost exclusively civil populations, mainly women and children. The international community can rightly state that it has reached goals in the field of humanitarian law and 22 human rights that were unimaginable 50 years ago. However, these considerable goals have been reached only with the simultaneous application of established rules. In this regard, we appreciate the tireless work of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict, aimed at filling the deep gap between legality and accepted practice, and at underlining the absolute need in the community of States for the full application of and respect for, international law. San Marino has great expectations of the future World Summit for Children. In every country and in every culture there are messages of peace which are often forgotten, neglected or ignored. It is the responsibility of the United Nations, its specialized agencies, and all of us to rehabilitate those messages through the awakening of our conscience and the application of a universal culture of peace. This will happen if we are able to courageously identify and defeat the seeds of violence. Therefore, we have to decide now what culture we want to defend: a culture where violence is considered an inevitable evil from which we can only protect ourselves, or a culture where violence can and must be eradicated. The preamble to the Constitution of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), which includes the words, “since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed”, remains today, in our opinion, the right perspective, because peace-building through dialogue, education and acceptance of differences is the best guarantee for the survival of humanity. We all know that there are 45 armed conflicts going on at this very moment all over the world. Sadly, the spilling of stains of hate and violence constantly destroys the hope that humanity will soon prepare to use the so- called “peace dividend”, resulting from the end of the balance of terror between the super-Powers, for positive goals. The Republic of San Marino deeply appreciates the recent Security Council resolution expeditiously establishing a multinational peace force to change the situation in the East Timor crisis. What the United Nations is starting is a risky mission, but it will contribute to increasing the role and dignity of the United Nations, underlining its force as an impartial and neutral institution deploying itself as a bulwark against prevarication to defend the life and the dignity of humankind. It is with great satisfaction that the Government of San Marino acknowledges the renewed impetus and momentum of the Arab-Israeli peace process negotiations. San Marino regards with equal satisfaction the present search for political solutions at the end of the Balkans conflict, activating a channel of concrete solidarity for the population of Kosovo. The people of San Marino sadly regret to see that the important and topical question of the death penalty has not been included in the General Assembly’s agenda. San Marino intends to continue to voice its protest against capital punishment, firmly convinced that the abhorrent instrument of death consciously and legally inflicted by one human being on another can be considered neither a valid and effective answer to defend society nor a deterrent against the spreading of criminality. On behalf of the Government of San Marino, I wish to acknowledge once more the focal role of the United Nations with respect to the major challenges at the end of this millennium and the momentum that the greatest international Organization can provide for a new century, in which the supremacy of a culture of peace over a culture of war, of a culture of life over a culture of death, of the full realization of human dignity over its systematic violation, will prevail. It is in this spirit that I wish good work to you, Sir, and to all the members of the Assembly.I am honoured to be afforded this opportunity to extend my delegation’s congratulations to Mr. Gurirab and his country, Namibia, on his election to the high office of President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. His considerable diplomatic experience is well known, and there is little doubt that the affairs of this session will be conducted with expeditiousness, skill and competence. At the same time, I wish to express my delegation’s appreciation and gratitude to his immediate predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, for the able manner in which he presided over the fifty-third session. Let me extend my delegation’s thanks to our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the excellent and exemplary leadership qualities he has displayed during this critical period for the United Nations and the international community. The Commonwealth of Dominica welcomes and congratulates the three new Member States — Kiribati, Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga — on their admission to the United Nations. We pledge to work with them on matters of mutual interest. I take this opportunity to convey my country’s deepest condolences to the Governments and the people of the Bahamas and the United States for the loss of life and destruction of property caused by hurricane Floyd. I also express my Government’s sentiments regarding the victims of the earthquakes in Greece, the Republic of China on Taiwan, Turkey, and, just recently, Mexico. Our sympathy is also extended to the victims of the nuclear accident in Japan. The Commonwealth of Dominica is supportive of the ongoing United Nations reform programme, the intent of which is to create a system geared to eliminating waste and duplication and making more efficient use of the Organization’s resources. At its creation the United Nations was charged with responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security, and the numerous United Nations missions currently in place around the globe are testimony to the Organization’s efforts to meet its Charter obligations in this regard. However, we continue to maintain that the restructuring and revitalization process should result in creating an Organization with the capacity, compassion and effectiveness to meet the many serious economic, social and humanitarian problems confronting the majority of citizens in the global village. We are not unmindful of the great contributions that the United Nations system has made to the improvement of health, the eradication of diseases and the rising levels of education and living standards in various parts of the world. Additionally, the United Nations has been at the forefront of efforts to focus international consciousness on human rights abuses, while it continues to be the last hope for the many thousands displaced each year as a result of political, religious or ethnic conflict. But poverty eradication remains an unfulfilled promise. Today, increasing numbers of people live in conditions of poverty, with no access to adequate medical care, basic education or even clean drinking water. We recognize that poverty eradication is a task to be undertaken not by the United Nations system alone, but in partnership with the international community, which must come to the realization that improvement in social and economic conditions is less costly than having to deal with the consequences of sustained economic deprivation and social degradation. The time for engaging in that partnership is now. As for the reform of the Security Council, the Commonwealth of Dominica supports the work of the Open-ended Working Group and its efforts at reconciling the many outstanding issues and differences among Member States. We believe that any meaningful reform of the Security Council should reflect present-day economic and geographical realities and must provide for a reasonable expansion of its membership and equitable representation for regional groupings, with no differentiation regarding the rights of permanent members. The Commonwealth of Dominica applauded the decision of the people of East Timor, as expressed in the popular consultation of 30 August 1999. We must therefore deplore and condemn the acts of violence visited upon the people of East Timor by those determined to 21 nullify the results of the consultation and maintain the colonial status quo. We commend the United Nations for its work in making the consultation possible and we strongly support the decision of the Security Council to authorize the establishment of a multinational peacekeeping force to protect the people of East Timor as they seek to assert their right to self-determination. The Commonwealth of Dominica wishes to address once again the issue of legitimate representation for the Republic of China on Taiwan and its people in the United Nations. The Republic of China on Taiwan, a model of democracy in the Asian region, is able and willing to carry out the obligations contained in the Charter of the United Nations. Over the past few decades, the Republic of China has made tremendous strides in economic development, thus enabling it to make a contribution to poverty alleviation through economic assistance programmes in developing countries. Dominica is concerned that an industrialized country, with a democratically elected Government, that exercises sovereign authority over a defined geographical area with a population of 22 million people, is denied membership of the United Nations. This situation must be addressed in order to ensure that the citizens of the Republic of China on Taiwan have a representative voice in the United Nations and its related agencies. The recently concluded special session of the General Assembly on small island developing States provided an opportunity to review the 1994 Barbados Plan of Action. The recognition of small island developing States in that regard is a significant milestone in the history of the United Nations. The follow-up action and the importance which the international community places on the implementation of the many proposals and recommendations will serve to determine not only the success of the special session, but also the credibility of the United Nations and the usefulness of these conferences. As a small island developing State which has always recognized the importance of conservation of the environment, Dominica made a commitment at the Rio Summit to vigorously pursue sustainable development. Two years later, Dominica participated in the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States in Barbados and has tried at the national level to implement the Plan of Action within the limits of our resources. The Barbados Plan of Action recognizes the importance of coastal and marine resources to the sustainable development of small island developing States. The Commonwealth of Dominica is acutely aware of that importance. Prudent use of our coastal and marine resources over many years has contributed immensely to the economic well-being and sustenance of our citizens. Moreover, the successful implementation of our eco-tourism development programme relies heavily on the maintenance and preservation of the marine and biological resources present in the seas around our island State. Those resources are under constant and serious threat from a number of sources, such as illegal waste-dumping with impunity by foreign-owned ocean liners; overfishing by non-indigenous fishing fleets; and the use of the Caribbean Sea for the transshipment of nuclear waste and other hazardous substances. The Commonwealth of Dominica, together with other members of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), continues to view the dangerous practice of the transshipment of nuclear waste and hazardous substances through the Caribbean Sea as a potentially serious threat to the fragile ecosystem and to the livelihood and well-being of the people of the region, and we call upon the States engaging in that practice to demonstrate some regard for our justifiable concerns. We earnestly seek the support of the international community in our ongoing effort to halt the shipment of these dangerous materials through the Caribbean Sea. Further, members of CARICOM call upon the General Assembly to recognize the Caribbean Sea as a special area in the context of sustainable development and urge the international community to support the concept and its development. The Commonwealth of Dominica is appreciative of the United Nations for paying special attention to the issue of small island developing States at the special session of the General Assembly. One sincerely hopes that this same recognition and support will be in evidence during the World Trade Organization (WTO) Ministerial Conference later this year, when small island developing States seek to address their particular concerns and circumstances. The Commonwealth of Dominica, like most small vulnerable States, faces increasing challenges from globalization; particularly in the area of multilateral trade negotiations. Due to resource constraints, developing countries are having difficulties in meeting the commitments which they made at the Uruguay Round. Yet we are on the eve of making further commitments at the new round of WTO negotiations to be launched in 22 Seattle in December. The negotiating process itself exposes developing countries to the growing disparities of the multilateral trading system. We run the risk of developing countries being further marginalized unless these negotiations give full recognition to their special circumstances, and in particular to those of small vulnerable economies. Small vulnerable economies will continue to require differential treatment for some time as a means of facilitating their integration into the world economy. My country’s experience with the WTO has not been a positive one. The economy of Dominica and those of the other Caribbean banana-producing countries are heavily dependent for their export earnings on this single crop. The WTO banana ruling has contributed to a significant decline in our banana exports. Our bananas are cultivated by small farmers whose main source of income could be wiped out as a result of the WTO ruling, resulting in increased unemployment and poverty in the rural areas. We need to find a solution to the banana dispute that will allow our farmers to continue to earn a living. There is a growing recognition of the need for a tariff rate quota as the most acceptable solution. However, the North American multinational banana companies are insisting on a simple tariff, which will ultimately lead to the demise of the small banana producers in the Caribbean and other African, Caribbean and Pacific States. We continue to receive assurances that it is not the intention of our neighbours to the North to hurt the Caribbean producers, but their actions indicate otherwise. Moreover, they insist on applying a strict interpretation to the multilateral trading rules, which displays a callous disregard of the plight of small banana farmers. The rules of the WTO must not be applied in a manner which is detrimental to the development process of small vulnerable States. My focus on issues presently facing the region would be incomplete without a brief but sincere appeal to this body to address the plight of the citizens of our sister island Cuba. As we progress to a new century, the United Nations must continue to condemn the prolonged economic blockade of Cuba. This unjustifiable action is unconscionable, unreasonable and a direct infringement on the rights of the people of Cuba to pursue a peaceful existence, economic prosperity and self-determination. Dominica therefore joins other members of the international community in calling for an end to this blockade. We should all seek more amicable methods of settling bilateral disputes. As a nation preparing to celebrate its twenty-first anniversary of independence on 3 November 1999, Dominica will continue to equip itself and its citizens to meet the challenges of the global environment and the new millennium. The Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica has endeavoured to ensure that its policies and programmes continue to provide the leadership, institutions and infrastructure necessary to attain that goal. The President returned to the Chair. Strengthened by our rich cultural heritage, as manifested in our Creole music, dance and other forms of expression, we are convinced that the world would be a safer and better place if the people of the world learned to respect and tolerate each other’s culture, religion and traditions. It is in this spirit that Dominica reaffirms its commitment to the ideals of the United Nations and pledges to do all in its power to support the efforts of all States, particularly those of the vulnerable small island developing States. The challenges facing Dominica are many, but I am confident that with the support of all Member States and with the help of God we shall prevail.  It is my honour today to convey to the Assembly the warm greetings and best wishes of the Government and people of the friendly islands of Fiji. On their behalf, I congratulate the President on his election. He will be interested to know that his great country, Namibia, is grouped together with my country in the same pool at the Rugby World Cup, which begins in Wales next month. While we are friendly rivals on the rugby football field, we are absolutely confident here that, with his extensive experience, and impressive credentials, we can all look forward to another successful session of the General Assembly. We also express our deep appreciation and gratitude to our outstanding Secretary-General and to the members of the Security Council for their wise and able stewardship of the United Nations over the past year. The priority challenge for the international community continues to be to help ensure that there is 26 freedom and justice and peace and prosperity in every part of our common habitat — the good planet Earth. I trust that this session of the General Assembly will focus particular attention on specific issues that bear directly on our collective responsibility, as Member States of the United Nations, in promoting peace, security and development to make our good planet Earth a better and safer place for all its citizens. In this regard, I wish to acknowledge the Government of the Republic of Indonesia for its foresight in giving the people of East Timor the freedom to choose their political future. Now that they have freely made their choice, we in Fiji join other States Members of the United Nations in appealing to the Government of Indonesia to facilitate the peaceful and orderly transition of East Timor to full nationhood and independence. To enable this, it is crucially important that every effort is made to restore law and order and ensure the provision and maintenance of effective security measures to allow the people of East Timor to return to their homes. The tragic situation which has arisen there, with the loss of hundreds of lives, need not have occurred had the Indonesian Government and the military properly exercised their responsibility to deal decisively with the unlawful armed elements. As a member of the United Nations family, Fiji stands ready to participate alongside other Member States in the United Nations peacekeeping force in East Timor in laying the foundation for lasting peace in that new nation. Also, we call on the international community to provide tangible assistance to enable East Timor to put an effective Government in place and rebuild its shattered economy. I take this opportunity to reaffirm Fiji’s continuing commitment to United Nations peacekeeping operations in Lebanon, Sinai, Bosnia and Kosovo. Within our own Pacific island region, we remain ready to support and assist Papua New Guinea in bringing permanent peace to Bougainville, as part of a South Pacific Forum regional peace mission. In the Solomon Islands, we are ready and prepared to cooperate with the Government, at the invitation and under the aegis of the Commonwealth of Nations, in restoring peace and promoting goodwill and understanding among the people of this very important neighbouring State. In all this, the guiding principle of Fiji’s participation is respect for the sovereign rights of the countries concerned and maintenance of the democratic rights and freedoms of their peoples. Making sacrifices in serving our common interests is nothing foreign to us in Fiji, for it is through the willingness of the various constituent communities in our multi-ethnic and multicultural society to make sacrifices in order to safeguard our collective future that we have succeeded in constructing an agreed constitutional framework for peace and prosperity in our country. We unanimously adopted a new Constitution in July 1997 to replace the racially weighted Constitution imposed on our people following the military coups of 1987. Under the new Constitution, general elections were held in May this year. In those free and democratic elections, my Government was elected into office with a clear, overwhelming majority. We decisively won the elections because our People’s Coalition Party promised policies on development that were focused specifically on addressing the basic needs of the people — the need for regular income through jobs or business opportunity; the need for better education and health services; a safe and clean water supply; electricity; good standard of housing at affordable prices; safe streets and neighbourhoods; and a clean and healthy environment. But above all these was the emphasis we placed on the critical need to bring relief and assistance to the poor, to those on low incomes and to the growing number of those who, through no fault of their own, live in dire poverty. Unemployment and poverty can be countered effectively only when people have the opportunity, through development, to apply their God-given talents and ability fully. To promote development we need sustained economic growth, but growth that creates employment and opportunities for a wide cross-section of society: growth that creates wealth for only a few and does not reach the masses that live in grinding poverty cannot be regarded as being for the national good. We therefore need to promote economic growth for human development: it must be regarded as the right of every citizen in any society to share in the benefits of growth, development and progress — benefits not just in the form of material well-being, but also in the improved quality of life through self-fulfilment and the contentment that comes from service to others and love of one’s neighbours and fellow citizens. And so it is with the global community. The promotion of freer international trade for greater growth and prosperity must be pursued with a strong sense of economic and social justice. At international gatherings such as this, we hear high-sounding platitudes and promises of international arrangements that would favour all nations. Such are the kinds of promises about gains 27 from free trade that we hear from the World Trade Organization. In reality, however, opportunities are never the same, let alone equal, given that conditions and circumstances are different, varying from country to country. It is not surprising, therefore, that international agreements genuinely aimed at facilitating freer and increased mutually beneficial international trade have often been undermined and frustrated by unilateral decisions and actions taken to protect vested national economic and political interests. Globalization and our growing interdependence must be accompanied by a strong and genuine international commitment — especially by those economies that dominate world trade, international finance, technology and industrial production — to consider special arrangements for the developing economies. The specific aim must be to create new opportunities for developing countries to earn higher incomes through their own efforts as participants in the global trading system. This is why my country, along with others in the Pacific, African and Caribbean regions, are deeply grateful to the European Union for the special trading and other arrangements under the Lomé Convention. For us in Fiji, 300,000 of our total population of 800,000 are dependent for their livelihoods, directly and indirectly, on the sugar industry. But it is the sugar protocol of the Lomé Convention with the European Union which is helping to sustain the continuing viability of this very important industry, while enabling us to attain the internal efficiencies necessary to enhance our international competitiveness. Similarly, it is the special South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement, or SPARTECA, which Australia and New Zealand maintain with Pacific island nations, that has been a positive factor in increasing Pacific island exports to these two countries. This Agreement has stimulated new industries in the manufacturing sector in our country, has substantially increased our export earnings and has helped create new employment for thousands of our people. We are, of course, grateful for the development assistance we are receiving from both bilateral and multilateral donors. I recognize in particular our traditional donors such as Australia, New Zealand, Japan, the United Kingdom, the European Union, the People’s Republic of China and many others, along with the various United Nations development agencies. This development assistance has been of immense value both in our economic and in our social development efforts. While we deeply appreciate all this assistance, we also believe that helping us with increased opportunities in trade and investment is the best form of aid — aid to assist us in achieving higher rates of growth and progress through our own self-reliant capability. We would therefore welcome increased and stronger United Nations support for global policies that contribute specifically to increased foreign capital investment and assistance to developing countries. We have been very disappointed by what we perceive to be the lack of genuine commitment by the international community, especially by bilateral and multilateral donor agencies and the large developed markets, to respond positively to the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. This Barbados Programme commitment was made five years ago. I very much hope, therefore, that the coming special session on small island developing States will readily agree on a common regime of international support to assist them in their efforts to achieve sustainable development. In that regard, my Government welcomes the new emphasis by multilateral agencies such as the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the Asian Development Bank to assist developing economies in the eradication of poverty, in enhancing human- resource development through better education and health facilities and services and in the improvement and expansion of infrastructure to support increased investment in the economy by both foreign and local investors. May I take this opportunity to congratulate the Kingdom of Tonga, the Republic of Nauru and the Republic of Kiribati on their admission to the United Nations. Their membership will no doubt add strength and resonance to the voice of Pacific Island nations in this very important international forum. But like them, we in the Republic of the Fiji Islands recognize that, in the ultimate, the United Nations draws its strength from the quality of the commitment of every Member State to its basic purpose and mission, as set out in the United Nations Charter and other related documents. Article 56 of the Charter reminds us all of our collective responsibility. All Member States are to pledge themselves to take joint and separate actions in cooperation with the United Nations for the achievement of its purposes. 28 Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that we are all endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood. In my country, the Republic of the Fiji Islands, we have, in our new Constitution, adopted a number of very important fundamental principles as the basis for consolidating peace, unity and stability in our multiethnic and multicultural society. In Fiji we believe in the kind of multiculturalism that recognizes the value and contribution of each community and also that cultural diversity serves to enrich our society. But we temper this by drawing in and uniting all our citizens through focusing on our common needs as human beings. We believe deeply and sincerely that it is the duty of government — indeed, of every government — to give equal care and attention to the development needs and concerns of all citizens, irrespective of race, religion, gender or economic and social status. These principles and this approach are working for us in Fiji, and I have no doubt that their universal application will also contribute to greater international peace, goodwill and understanding. Indeed, as we direct our attention to the beginning of the new millennium, and in particular the proposed millennium summit of the General Assembly in September of next year, let us look to it both with seriousness of purpose and with a new determination as a unique opportunity to rebuild the foundation for international cooperation. My delegation fully supports the efforts of our Secretary-General to reform the Organization. The United Nations was established fifty-four years ago. To be meaningful, this reform must include a revision of the United Nations Charter to reflect the realities of today. On the Security Council, this must include an increase in both the permanent and non-permanent membership, based on a more equitable representation of the different geographical regions. We also urge that the existing regional groupings in the United Nations for the purpose of representation in the various organs and specialized agencies should be reviewed with a view to reconfiguring them. This is, again, to ensure fair and equitable representation of the various geographical regions. The countries from the South Pacific region, for example, are currently split between the Asian Group and the Western European Group. Australia and New Zealand are part of the Western European Group. On the other hand, Fiji and other island States from the South Pacific are members of the Asian Group. Such a configuration is not only discriminatory on ethnic lines, it is also, in these days, artificial and irrelevant. I believe, therefore, that it is time Member States from the South Pacific should be allowed to have their own distinctive regional grouping in the United Nations. In proposing this, we are not asking for something that is totally new. In fact, this is already the accepted arrangement in such United Nations agencies as the World Health Organization and the Food and Agriculture Organization. With regard to its development agenda, the United Nations, we believe, must give greater attention to its responsibility, under Article 55 of the United Nations Charter, on the promotion of international cooperation in economic and social development, with particular reference to the needs of developing countries. The World Summit for Social Development at Copenhagen in 1995 agreed on 10 main commitments to be part of an international Programme of Action to enhance social development, including the eradication of poverty in the world through decisive national actions and international cooperation. We look forward to next year’s review by the United Nations of this very important Programme of Action. As we begin the new millennium, let it be a challenge to the United Nations to recommit itself to the very important goal of promoting social justice and equity as a top priority in economic development, both within and between nations. It is incumbent on all of us — the Member States, multilateral agencies such as the World Bank and the IMF, and the various United Nations development agencies — to cooperate in taking all appropriate actions to create conditions of stability and well-being, which are necessary for peaceful and friendly relations among nations. As I have said, our membership of the United Nations and our attendance here at this session of the General Assembly reflect our commitment to the United Nations Charter on the maintenance of international peace and security. I urge all Member States to work together to encourage the resolution of disputes and conflicts through dialogue and the pursuit of consensus. And we must do this always with recognition and respect for national sovereignty and independence. As men and women of goodwill, we have gathered here at the United Nations to reaffirm our common 29 commitment to promoting a more peaceful world. But let us remind ourselves that peace is more than the absence of war or conflict. Peace can be real and enduring only when we all cooperate closely to create conditions for life to be lived in freedom and security, and with justice and dignity. We must therefore collaborate and cooperate in promoting international trade in goods and services, financial and technology transfers and development that benefits all countries, big and small, developed and developing. And let us act in concert, and with responsibility, in safeguarding and protecting our precious national and global environment. In concluding, I pray to the Almighty to bless us all, as children of His divine creation, with His wisdom and love, so that we may live together and relate to each other as brothers and sisters, bound together by mutual care and concern for one another. Let me join other delegations in congratulating Mr. Gurirab on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty- fourth session. His skill and experience will serve us well as he directs the vital work to be undertaken at this session. I should also like to take this opportunity to thank his predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, for his outstanding stewardship of the General Assembly at its fifty-third session. The Government of the Republic of Moldova warmly welcomes the admission of the three new Members of the United Nations: the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru, and the Kingdom of Tonga. Since its admission to the United Nations in 1992, the Republic of Moldova has consistently been an active supporter of the world Organization. As a small country, we depend on the United Nations for our security and for our very existence. We want to see it further strengthened and the sphere of its activities expanded. We believe that in this emerging new international order, it is more necessary than ever that the United Nations be capable of fulfilling the role entrusted to it by the Charter, as the guarantor of peace, security and social justice throughout the world. It is from that perspective that we evaluate the United Nations reform process launched by the Secretary- General; as we see it, reform means the rational adaptation of United Nations mechanisms to present and future needs. We owe the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, our gratitude and support for his reform proposals. Especially, we welcome the implementation of the Secretary-General’s reform proposals aimed at fostering greater internal coordination, streamlining procedures and rationalizing the activities of the Organization. In this context, I would like to underline the positive results thus far achieved by the United Nations Development Group and the Executive Committee on Economic and Social Affairs. The preliminary application of the United Nations Development Assistance Framework in 18 pilot countries and more intense cooperation between Bretton Woods institutions and the United Nations are also producing promising results. Integration within the United Nations system is also moving ahead at the country level. I can already see some 12 encouraging results from the Republic of Moldova’s “One country, one United Nations” policy. From this perspective, we believe also that the integration of United Nations representation at the country level will lead to substantive improvements and greater coherence in the relationship between the United Nations system and the host country. I take this opportunity to inform members that in the near future a United Nations common house will be officially inaugurated in the capital of our country, Chisinau. I would like to mention in this context the substantial assistance provided by the United Nations to my country through the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) office in the Republic of Moldova. The activities carried out by the UNDP office contribute significantly to the ongoing reform process. We believe that the diversification and deepening of collaboration among States has enhanced the development of regional and subregional cooperation as well. In fact, the Charter itself attaches great significance to regional organizations. Documents laying the foundations for collaboration between the United Nations and various regional organizations have been drawn up, in particular in recent years. General Assembly resolutions pertaining to cooperation between the United Nations on the one hand, and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), the League of Arab States and the Organization of African Unity (OAU) on the other, are relevant from that point of view. Some regional organizations have acquired new areas of competence, including in the field of peace and security, and have become a trustworthy support for the United Nations in containing and eliminating local conflicts. For the near future, we may expect that additional regional organizations and groupings will be interested in setting up a cooperation framework with the United Nations, similar those that exist with other regional organizations. The Republic of Moldova supports that trend. As a founding member of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization, and as the country which at the end of this month will assume the presidency of that organization, the Republic of Moldova welcomes the recent decision of the General Committee to include in the agenda of the fifty-fourth session an item concerning the granting of observer status in the General Assembly to the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization. To this effect, the Republic of Moldova would very much appreciate it if Member States lent their valuable support to the granting of observer status in the Assembly to that organization. We are fully aware of the fact that because of its outstanding role in dealing with world problems, the United Nations is confronted with a growing number of new threats to international security and stability. In this context, peacekeeping operations represent one of the world Organization’s main instruments with which to stop conflicts in various parts of the world and to create favourable conditions for their political settlement. It is also obvious that in recent years the United Nations has nearly exhausted its ability to respond to the increasing number of requests for such operations. Under these circumstances, we support and encourage the trend towards involving regional organizations and arrangements, in cooperation with the United Nations, in the mitigation of certain conflicts. At the same time, we consider that peacekeeping operations should as a rule be undertaken under the auspices of the United Nations and in conformity with United Nations standards. Statements made during the general debate have offered an eloquent perspective on the major challenges confronting the present-day system of international relations and on the role that international organizations, and primarily the United Nations, have to play in order to meet them. One of the most important issues spoken of in this context is the maintenance of peace, security and stability in various regions affected by crisis and internal conflict. Unfortunately, developments in those regions compel us to acknowledge the insoluble character of many such conflicts. These so-called frozen conflicts have a huge potential for destabilization and destruction. The Kosovo tragedy has clearly shown how they can degenerate if we do not succeed in working out timely long-lasting solutions. The Secretary-General is absolutely right when he stresses that a tragic irony of many of the crises that continue to go unnoticed and unchallenged today is that they could be dealt with by far less perilous acts of intervention than the one we witnessed recently in Yugoslavia. At the same time, one of the main conclusions to be drawn from conflicts such as those in Kosovo and in Bosnia is that no single organization or State is capable of solving conflicts of such complexity and scale on its own. The uniqueness of the United Nations is defined particularly by its capacity to efficiently mobilize the resources of the international community and to orchestrate its efforts in order to defuse and solve crisis and conflict situations. That unique potential has to be more actively and more efficiently used, particularly in 13 relation to the internal conflicts confronted by some newly independent States. Since 1992, when the majority of the ex-Soviet republics became members of the United Nations, dozens of interventions concerning conflicts in these States, Moldova among them, have been spoken of in this Assembly. One of the main conclusions of those statements was that without more active involvement by the international community those conflicts will remain “frozen”. In this context, it bears mention that the United Nations, as well as other international bodies and individual States, have made an important contribution to ending the violence and military clashes and in bringing the parties involved to the negotiating table. Another positive result from the actions of the international community has been the parties’ acceptance of the idea of resolving their differences through peaceful means. For this reason, the Republic of Moldova, like other countries with similar problems in our own region, has continued to support more active involvement by the United Nations and regional organizations in managing the conflicts which they have faced for many years now. We think that the time is ripe to give more consideration to the question of how the root causes of those conflicts should be identified and dealt with. In this respect the United Nations can efficiently use its potential only through intensive cooperation and interaction with the European organizations and institutions, particularly OSCE. Through enhanced synergy and avoidance of duplication, and by using and maintaining consulting mechanisms at various levels and exchanging information about plans and activities between itself and those organizations, the United Nations can improve the situation in countries affected by internal conflicts. However, there must be firm decisions about what action must be taken to ensure the implementation of the relevant resolutions and decisions adopted of the United Nations and the OSCE, the main international organizations involved in settling those conflicts. We believe that the General Assembly should evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness of cooperation between the United Nations and OSCE from this point of view also. That I refer to the issue of conflicts in some detail is not incidental. The problem of the eastern region of the Republic of Moldova has been repeatedly described, from this rostrum, by representatives of my country. To my regret, I must inform of the Assembly that there has been no tangible progress towards a comprehensive settlement. Throughout the negotiations, we have sought to accomplish the purpose for which the Assembly was established: to replace mistrust and violent confrontation with dialogue and agreement between the parties to the conflict. The Government of my country has shown more than once that it strongly advocates a peaceful resolution, through negotiations, of the conflict situation in Transnistria, in accordance with the norms and practice of international law and in collaboration with international organizations, primarily OSCE, and with the Russian Federation and Ukraine as mediators. Although it has made the spirit of compromise evident, the Government firmly believes that any proposal for a settlement must provide for territorial integrity to be maintained and for control over the territory of the whole country to be ensured. Despite a reasonable compromise on the part of the constitutional authorities, separatist tendencies still persist. A number of documents — elaborated with the active participation of OSCE and other mediators and signed by all parties involved — are being interpreted unilaterally, and in a manner contrary to their meaning, by the Transnistrian leaders. Moreover, these leaders are trying to impose certain concepts that do not exist in law and territorial practice and are contrary to the principle of territorial integrity. Here I refer to am referring to the concept of “common State,” which has very frequently been imposed in discussions to define relations between the central and local authorities in certain conflict zones. We consider this concept dangerous due as it attempts to distort the notion of statehood and State sovereignty and provide a legal framework for the ideology of aggressive separatism. I believe that the United Nations and other international organizations will also find this concept both inadequate and counter-productive as a means of resolving internal conflicts. In Transnistria, we are striving for a rapid and definitive solution and a return to stability, and a return also to respect for human rights, which continue to be violated in this region. The case of the Ilascu group, and violation of fundamental human rights and freedoms it represents are eloquent in this respect. We consider it imperative for international efforts to solve the current crisis situations, most of which have separatism as their main cause, to be strengthened. In this connection, I would mention that we fully share the views expressed earlier by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of 14 the Russian Federation concerning aggressive separatism. Indeed, the international community and, first of all, the United Nations should decisively suppress any manifestations of separatism and rigorously and consistently defend the principles of sovereignty, integrity and the inviolability of national frontiers. To this end, the complete eradication of outside encouragement and support for separatist forces is most certainly necessary. Another aspect of the Transnistrian problem is military: this zone is famously overmilitarized, which has very negatively affected the settlement process. Thousands of tons of shells and armaments — both accounted for and unaccounted for, and including equipment limited by the Conventional Armed Forces in Europe (CFE) Treaty — are stationed there. This military presence is in evident contradiction to the Constitution of the Republic of Moldova, which declared the State’s neutrality and that foreign troops are not admissible in our country. Another premise for accelerating the settlement process is, would undoubtedly be the immediate, complete, unconditional and orderly withdrawal of foreign troops, as stipulated in OSCE summit decisions required by the CFE Treaty, the keystone of European security and may on no account be violated. I hope that, together with our partners and the relevant international organizations, we can establish, very soon, an effective mechanism and detailed schedule for the takeover, destruction or removal of the foreign military arsenal from Republic of Moldova territory. I express my gratitude for the political support and, especially, for the financial assistance provided by many United Nations Member States for the withdrawal or elimination of those arsenals. I voice our hope that the proceedings of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session will be conducted in a spirit of solidarity and with a realistic and constructive approach to the complex issues confronting the contemporary world at the end of this millennium. The delegation of the Republic of Moldova is committed to contributing, alongside other Member States, to the fulfilment of the lofty goals of the United Nations.   Allow me at the outset to congratulate the President heartily on his election. His post is a challenging one, and I am particularly pleased that this session is being chaired by a colleague from Namibia, which is an important partner for my country. The crucial role of the United Nations in the global community can never be overstated. As this millennium draws to a close, it is natural to take stock of the past and try to foresee what the future holds in store. The Organization's reform measures have included an inward look at the organizational structure and personnel matters and, last but not least, its financial make-up. In this respect, many feel that more needs to be done. We must have the courage to scrutinize not only the Organization itself, but also the manner in which the Member States conduct their business inside these walls. While we are going through this process, the utmost care should be taken to prevent the discussion from negatively affecting the public image of the Organization. Moreover, we should make sure that it does not have detrimental effects on the morale of the United Nations international staff, whom we depend upon for the smooth operation of the difficult and often dangerous tasks we assign to them. A constructive approach to reform is vital for the future of the United Nations. There is a real need to strengthen the ability of the United Nations to tackle the complex challenges of the modern world. A case in point is the Working Group on the reform of the Security Council, which has deliberated for years without tangible results, with no end in sight. This constant repetition can serve only to weaken the United Nations, which has proved itself on many occasions to be of fundamental importance to mankind. But it is not only the organizational structures that need to be adapted. We need also to look at the substance. In this regard, I welcome the emphasis placed by the Secretary-General in his recent report on creating a culture of prevention. As he correctly points out, our political and organizational cultures and practices remain oriented far more towards reaction than prevention. This needs to be changed; the efficiency of the United Nations might thereby be greatly enhanced. During a recent meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the five Nordic countries held in Iceland, we issued a joint declaration against the use of child soldiers. In the declaration it is noted that the current protection of children in armed conflicts is insufficient and that international standards must be raised. On the occasion of the tenth anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child this year, the Nordic Ministers support the urgent finalization of an optional protocol to ensure that persons below the age of 18 years are not recruited into armed forces or into armed groups distinct from governmental forces. Children should not be forced to take part in hostilities under any circumstances. In this regard, I would like to express my satisfaction with the work carried out by the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict, especially for his efforts to make non- governmental forces around the world refrain from using child soldiers. The vast majority of United Nations Member States have ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child. We have committed ourselves to certain actions to promote children's rights. Causing children to take part in armed conflicts or otherwise putting them at risk of becoming victims of such hostilities is clearly against the best interests of the child, which should always be our primary consideration. There is another powerful reason to protect children: they are our future. Protecting today's children is in itself an important contribution towards peace and towards creating a culture of prevention. We should also strive to ensure that children are able to enjoy their rights during transitional periods following armed 30 conflicts or other emergency situations until enough stability has been achieved to start reconstruction. It seems that not a week goes by in our world without countries and indeed the international community having to watch in horror as cowardly terrorists target people going about the business of their everyday lives. The murdering of innocents will never further any cause or put an end to any conflict; it will only add names to the roster of the dead. We urge States to sign and ratify counter-terrorism conventions. In this connection, I would further like to reiterate our resolve in combatting transnational crime and the international trade in drugs. No country is immune from these modern evils. Given their global scope and the resources available to criminals, Governments the world over must work together to put an end to these activities. This year we have recognized the importance of the elderly and their contributions to our lives and society by observing 1999 as the International Year of Older Persons. The Icelandic authorities have done their utmost to enhance the visibility of issues facing the elderly in today's society. This has been done through a number of projects, including projects designed to bridge the generation gap by encouraging interaction between age groups. At a time of unparalleled economic growth spurred on by the globalization of the world's economy, the fruits of this growth, unfortunately, are not evenly distributed. We are witnessing a growing gap in the distribution of wealth within societies as well as between the North and the South. Moreover, we have been witnessing an appalling trend whereby the curse of poverty has increasingly been falling upon the shoulders of women. There are no easy answers on how to tackle this problem in the short term, but two long-term approaches stand out regarding the empowerment and advancement of women. They are education and respect for human rights. An educated woman passes knowledge to her children, which is not as often the case with men. It is universally accepted that education and social development go hand in hand and are conditions for a peaceful and prosperous world. In this age of globalization and technology, it becomes ever more important to ensure universal education. Therefore, it is crucial to incorporate education into development projects. For the past few years we have been doing that through training in the fisheries sector as well as by conducting adult literacy programmes for women in countries such as Namibia. Similar programmes are being prepared for Malawi and Mozambique. Vigorous efforts also have to be made to end other forms of discrimination against women. This applies not only at the national level but also at the international level, where the actions of international organizations are increasingly having a direct impact on peoples' lives, for example through crisis management. When carrying out such tasks, it is the duty of the organizations concerned to ensure that women and their interests are represented at the negotiating table. During the high-level segment of this year's session of the Economic and Social Council, the Icelandic delegation paid special attention to the plight of the urban poor who inhabit coastal regions around the world. Today, my country, Iceland, has a thriving economy based on our fishing industry. The development of a viable fishing industry has strengthened the economy by creating employment opportunities and prosperity, which in turn have benefitted the population at large. It is self- evident that a developed fisheries sector can be a crucial factor in enhancing the food security of developing countries. The Icelandic authorities have urged private companies to invest in the fisheries sectors of many developing countries. Partnerships forged in this manner between firms in my country and a number of developing countries have led to transfer of technology in this field, thereby spurring economic growth and development in the coastal regions in question. We believe that many developing countries can benefit much more from rational utilization of the resources of the oceans. Therefore, approximately half of our development cooperation has been concentrated on research and training in the fisheries sector, putting an emphasis on the sustainable utilization of natural resources. Through the years, Iceland has placed particular importance on the work of the Commission on Sustainable Development. During its seventh session, earlier this year, the Icelandic Government noted the necessity of abolishing State subsidies that contribute to overcapacity in the fisheries sector worldwide, and participated actively in discussions on the need for improved coordination within the United Nations system in the field of ocean affairs. It is our view that the overall debate on the oceans can be improved. It is, however, our firm belief that efforts to improve the handling of ocean issues should draw upon existing institutional resources. 31 These efforts should also carefully take into account the principle that global bodies should not try to solve local or regional problems of fisheries management. The management of living marine resources is a very complex and sensitive task that has to be dealt with using the most advanced scientific knowledge available and in harmony with local socio-economic and environmental circumstances. Conflicts where the civilian population is expressly targeted are abhorrent and leave scars that take generations to heal. Once again, we have witnessed the emergence of the dark and evil side of human nature in the horrible ethnic cleansing that took place in the recent conflict in Kosovo. It would have been desirable if the United Nations could have played an all-encompassing role in the settlement of that conflict. In this regard, I would like to endorse the position put forward on humanitarian intervention by the Secretary- General. When a State not only stops protecting the rights of its citizens but turns against them through gross violations of human rights, the international community cannot and should not stand idly by. Iceland currently holds the chair of the Council of Europe, which encompasses 41 European countries. I would like to take this opportunity to stress the value and importance of close cooperation between the Council and the United Nations in the field of human rights. We have recent examples of such practical cooperation in Kosovo, where the Council of Europe is working together with the United Nations and other organizations in fulfilment of Security Council resolution 1244 (1999) and the European Union-led Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe. Referring again to the benefits of prevention, I should say that prevention is at the very centre of the Council of Europe's work on human rights, democracy and the rule of law. The agreement between Portugal and Indonesia on the future of East Timor was historic, as was the referendum which took place. The appalling violence that followed is a cause of great concern. Every effort has to be made to halt it and to punish those responsible. My Government fully supports Security Council resolution 1264 (1999) and welcomes the speedy deployment of the multinational force. Nothing should be allowed to delay the process towards the independence of East Timor. We welcome also the change of pace in the Middle East peace process. The positive developments in the last few months between the Israelis and the Palestinians have been very encouraging, and we sincerely hope that this renewed momentum will carry us towards a lasting peace in the region. We urge other countries in the region to seize this particular moment and to start the healing of wounds that have been festering for so long. Icelanders are no strangers to natural disasters, and we know the devastation they can unleash upon countries and peoples. Our hearts and sympathy go out to our friends in Turkey, Greece and now, most recently, on the island of Taiwan, who face the aftermath of earthquakes that claimed the lives of a great number of people. We have now decided to join the United Nations Disaster Assessment and Coordination Stand-by Team because we believe we can make a contribution. During this century we have witnessed mankind's greatest achievements as well as its greatest failures. While many countries have gone from war to peace and from poverty to prosperity, others have been unable to grasp these often elusive goals of humanity. It is clear that we will be entering the new millennium with unsolved problems and with challenges of such a magnitude that they will continue to confront us into an unforeseen future. I would like, in closing, to stress what I said in the beginning — that only with a renewed and revitalized United Nations can we hope to deal with the threats and challenges that lie ahead. If we, the Member States, shoulder our responsibilities and implement the changes necessary, then the United Nations will always be at the forefront of the quest for peace and prosperity. If we do not have the courage to adopt the necessary changes, we cannot expect our children to do so.   On behalf of our Government and in my capacity as Chair of the Non-Aligned Movement, I wish to extend our sincere congratulations to you, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, on your election as President of the General Assembly. I would also like to thank you for the kind remarks you made about my country as you assumed your high position. We have worked together for many decades. Thanks in good measure to your statespersonship, as neighbours we live together in peace and have joined hands as equals to ensure the all-round fulfilment of both our peoples. These experiences convince us that you will discharge your responsibilities as President of the General Assembly in a manner that will help humanity make our common world a better place for all. We are pleased that you will be working with the Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, who has demonstrated unquestionable commitment to the realization of the attainment of the goals of the Organization. The Charter of this Organization and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights provide all of us with the vision towards which we should strive. At the time these documents were adopted, they reflected the international determination to ensure that the catastrophe occasioned by the rise of fascism and Nazism should never recur. We recall them today because we believe that the time has come for determined measures to be taken to ensure that they inform what happens in the common world we all share. The central message they contain is expressed in the words of the preamble to the Declaration: “the peoples of the United Nations have in the Charter reaffirmed their faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person and in the equal rights of men and women and have determined to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom”. We believe that the time has come for all of us to ensure that we work together to reconstruct human society in a manner consistent with this perspective. We further believe that what we have said constitutes a particular and historic challenge to those who occupy positions of political leadership in the modern era, those who, like us, will have the privilege of addressing this General Assembly. Only time will tell whether we have the moral and intellectual courage to rise to this challenge. But this we feel we can say: that conditions exist in the world today for us successfully to pursue the vision contained in the United Nations documents to which I have referred. What may be in short supply is the courage of the politicians, as opposed to an abundance of good- sounding rhetoric. What are these conditions of which we speak? The cold war has come to an end. There is no sign anywhere of an ideology-driven contest among super-Powers which dictates that each should seek to destroy the other in order to protect itself. It is true that a number of countries still possess weapons of mass destruction, especially nuclear weapons, which constitute a threat. The only logical way to address this is vigorously to sue for universal disarmament and the destruction of such weapons. Secondly, I believe it would be correct to say that the overwhelming majority of countries in the world have opted for democratic forms of government. Having learned from their own experiences, the nations have turned their backs on dictatorship. Of course, we cannot say that such dictatorships do not exist or that no attempt will be made in the future to establish them. But we can make bold to say that these exceptions prove the rule, rather than disprove the proposition we are trying to advance. The combination of these two factors should lead to three conclusions, at least. The first is that there should be no need on the part of any country to seek to establish spheres of influence as a supposed necessary condition for the advancement of its national interests. Secondly, the very sustenance of democracy across the globe requires that in every democratic country the ordinary people should feel that they actually do enjoy the right to determine their destiny. In other words, no country should be required to restrict its exercise of this 8 right simply because some other more powerful country dictates that this should be so. Thirdly, these circumstances create the possibility for a more democratic system of international governance, as would be reflected by a correct restructuring of this very Organization. In any case, the process of globalization necessarily redefines the concept and the practice of national sovereignty. The frontiers of that sovereignty are being pushed back, especially as regards the smaller countries of the world, such as our own. As this happens, inevitably, so does it become necessary that a compensatory movement take place towards the reinforcement of the impact of these countries on the system of global governance through the democratization of the system of international relations. The developments we have spoken of also suggest that perhaps, and depending on what we all do, humanity has never had as bright a prospect for durable world peace and security as it does today. The mere spread of democracy throughout the world speaks of a greater commitment among the nations to the resolution of national and international conflicts by peaceful means. I am certain that when President Abdelaziz Bouteflika, the current Chairperson of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), addresses the Assembly, he will report on the important decision recently taken at the Algiers summit of the OAU to exclude from its ranks, with effect from the next summit, all military regimes that may still exist on the African continent. A further decision was taken to assist such countries resolutely to move towards a democratic system of government. The developments on which we have commented would suggest that the Organization has a responsibility to focus especially on the objective contained in Article I, paragraph 1, of its Charter, which says, “to take effective collective measures for the prevention and removal of threats to the peace ... and to bring about by peaceful means, and in conformity with the principles of justice and international law, adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations which might lead to a breach of the peace”. This, we believe, imposes a solemn and supreme responsibility on the United Nations to work for the prevention of conflicts and to endeavour to resolve them so that a durable peace can be established. Sometimes, our response to conflicts has been to wait for them to develop into violence, and even wars, and subsequently to intervene through costly peacekeeping operations. These, at times, serve to freeze those conflicts, perpetuate polarization and make their timely resolution more difficult. Moreover, the requirement on the United Nations to make such interventions to prevent the outbreak of hostilities imposes an obligation on the United Nations that it should be seen by Governments and peoples as a truly even-handed interlocutor and peacemaker. It can attain this only if it works genuinely to “develop friendly relations among nations based on respect for the principle of equal rights and self- determination of peoples”, as stated in Article I, paragraph 2, of its Charter. If indeed we are seriously committed to these critical objectives of peace and democracy in the world, then we have no excuse to permit the further postponement of the meaningful restructuring of the United Nations. If we were honest with ourselves, we would admit that what is blocking progress is the desire to accommodate what are perceived as new power relations, to reinstitutionalize relations of inequality within the United Nations in an amended form. This is based on the thesis that the institutionalization of such relations has precedence over the Organization’s founding principle of respect for the principle of equal rights among the nations. In the situation of the cold war and the prevalence of dictatorship in many countries, the politics of power might have been seen as the only path to survival. The management of the world today through the exercise of such power, however modified, will itself subvert the objectives of democracy and peace, spawning pretenders to the throne at global, continental and regional levels. Simultaneously as the United Nations focuses on the critical question of the prevention of conflict, so must it attend to such issues as the elimination of weapons of mass destruction, the implementation of the ban on anti- personnel mines, the removal of mines in those countries which face this problem and the control of the proliferation of small arms. Of course, none of these proposals gainsay the need for the United Nations to act with all necessary vigour to help end all existing conflicts of which it is seized, including those in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Angola, Western Sahara, East Timor, Eritrea and Ethiopia, Kosovo and others. 9 We started off with a quotation from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which speaks of affirming the dignity and worth of the human person, the promotion of social progress and securing a better life for all. We argued that conditions exist for movement towards the realization of the objectives spelt out in the Declaration. It is a matter of common cause among all of us that the levels of poverty, ignorance and disease that continue to afflict billions around the globe constitute a direct denial of the dignity and worth of the human person to which we have committed ourselves. I am certain that we would also agree that the process of globalization has also been accompanied by growing inequality within and among countries. We have also seen how movements of short-term capital have produced disastrous economic consequences in some countries. As with the challenges of peace and democracy, it is our firm belief that sufficient resources exist within the world economy actually to address the social progress and the better life for all for which the Universal Declaration of Human Rights calls. Further to this, science and technology continue to develop in such a way that it is difficult to believe that, taken together with the large concentrations of capital that characterize the world economy, the means do not exist within human society to make the required impact on poverty, ignorance and disease. Indeed, it can be argued quite rationally that international peace, democracy and prosperity are a necessary condition for the further rapid growth of the world economy, and with it the further expansion of the corporations, both small and big, which require global markets. Similarly, the revolution in information and communication technology, a critical driver of the process of globalization, both enables and calls for higher levels of education and standards of living among the billions who constitute the human population. However, it is clear that there is no automatic or inherent mechanism within the operation of the markets to enable both capital and technology to make the sort of impact we are talking about on all countries of the globe. When we say this we should not be taken to mean that we are contemptuous of all that has been said about what each country needs to do to create the conditions conducive to investment and technology transfers. Nor should it be taken to mean that we are reopening the debate about the role of markets in the allocation of resources. What we are saying is that the functioning of the markets does not and cannot exclude conscious interventions being made, both to increase economic opportunities and to raise the standards of living and the life possibilities of many in the world denied their human dignity by the scourge of poverty. In his interesting book Living on Thin Air, the British author Charles Leadbeater, writes: “The new (knowledge driven) economy needs a mobilizing vision and institutions fashioned to make it real. Bit by bit, our institutions are changing through reform, reorganisation and restructuring — but the process is much too slow, haphazard and piecemeal — it must become more conscious, imaginative and radical.” Once more, the matter turns on the will of the political leaders actually to discover among themselves the moral and intellectual courage to do what is correct and necessary. What is correct and necessary also requires that in this field as well, which affects socio-economic matters, we should review the functioning of all multilateral institutions, including those that belong within the United Nations family. This should be done to ensure that these too reflect the very necessary imperative of the democratization of the international system of governance. The United Nations documents to which we referred earlier give us a starting point. Accordingly, we believe that there is no need for anyone among us to rediscover a new vision that would inform our actions to build a new world which affirms the dignity and worth of the human person. What is necessary is that we match the beliefs we profess with the necessary action. We speak of action that will practically address the related issues of peace, democracy and development. I am certain that such a practical programme of action would meet the aspirations not only of the members of the Organization of African Unity and the Non-Aligned Movement, of which we are a member. It would also respond to the most deep-seated feelings of the peoples of the developed North, who can have no interest in conflict, oppression and poverty, even if these occur beyond the borders of their own countries. It also goes without saying that the democratic systems in which we operate would also require that, through committed advocacy, we should secure the support of the electors for what should be a programme of action of the United Nations for the twenty-first century. 10 The evolution of human society has presented the world leaders who will stand at this rostrum with new possibilities to move our globe a giant step forward towards a new actuality, of which the poor and the powerless dream every day. We will be betraying those millions if we do not act to turn their dream into reality. Let future generations not say that because of the force of inertia we failed to act.  Mr. President, you assume the presidency at a historic moment and during the most challenging of times. Most warmly do we congratulate you. Samoa welcomes your leadership and pledges to you and to Namibia our fullest support. This Assembly is an especially happy one for the Pacific: we now have in our midst three more South Pacific Forum States, the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. Ancient in tradition and long in the business of political independence, each represents the variety and uniqueness of our region. They make more real the goal of universality, as I know their contribution will enrich the work of the Organization. In the name of my country, I extend to the Governments of Kiribati, Nauru and Tonga the warmest of greetings. Let me, at the outset, pay a tribute to the stewardship of our Secretary-General and acknowledge the remarkable work of the United Nations — remarkable in terms of what is being done and achieved, at times against extreme and appalling odds. The twentieth century has been marked by violence and tragedy throughout. Millions have died in countless conflicts worldwide. Millions more continue to perish from poverty and disease. The Secretary-General’s report on the work of the Organization (A/54/1) is thoughtful and challenging. Our world is one of trouble and insecurity. The range and complexity of the issues are worrying, in some respects seemingly overwhelming. Ordinary aspirations are not being matched by effective action. Far too many are embroiled in the brutalities of war. Fundamental human needs and rights are being denied. I believe we should all pay much more attention to the reports of the Secretary-General. There is much there to confirm, and much to test our own perception of events and trends: directly, and in my view rightly, the Secretary-General has drawn attention to the place of sovereignty in the context of our contemporary common interest and asks how and by what means we are to defend that common interest. These questions go to the heart of the matter; the answers to them will define the role of the United Nations in the next millennium. There will, of course, be variance in perspectives. The experience of the United Nations itself in recent times does not yield satisfactory answers. Yet there are challenges that need to be met, seriously and urgently. I would agree with the Secretary-General that it is critical to set clear criteria for international action and intervention. It is the United Nations, with its multilateral setting, that is best placed to determine such criteria; it is the United Nations that has been invested with the global ideals to deal with interventions, but, alas, there have been failures and there has been inability. We should now look more deeply into the causes of those failures and lack of ability and in so doing we must balance competing rights and values. The very essence of the Organization is thus brought into focus: we need to ensure that the United Nations is able to function effectively in the new century, that we have a United Nations strengthened by commitment and reform. Above all, we need to bear in mind the essential connection between peace, development and human rights. We ignore any one to the fundamental detriment of all, although peace is the ultimate measure of our common interest, indeed, of our common future. We think it is time to move to a more definitive phase in the current efforts to reform the Security Council. The issues are clear, and have been clear for some time: points of argument are now being repeated, or repackaged. Substantive changes are required: the current structure does not reflect the facts and realities of today; suffers from imbalance and inequities. Membership of the Security Council should be enlarged: we have said before that Japan deserves to be a permanent member. Provision for this should be made. We appreciate the procedural changes made to the working of the Council, and we would encourage more of them: it would not be desirable to seek to resolve the unfairness of representation in one category without proper attention to the other. We share the view that Security Council reforms must necessarily be comprehensive and must address all aspects as a whole, including the power of veto. The veto is a central issue which must be resolved in the context of the current reforms. We think there is a proven case for the power of veto to be curtailed, and restricted to Chapter VII matters. Samoa fully supports the ongoing efforts to modernize and strengthen the Organization. Reform measures must provide for the serious and early review of the regional groupings. The current arrangements are more representative of the past than the present. There is a need for reconfiguration to reflect natural geographies and to ensure equitable representation of subregions. The anomaly of Australia and New Zealand being counted outside their geographical area should be corrected. They form a natural part of the South Pacific subregion of the Asian Group. Samoa adds its voice to the call made by Fiji and Papua New Guinea during this session for such regional reconfiguration. The matter should figure in the reform of the Organization and should be taken into account in reforming the structure and membership of the Security Council. In the coming year, as we move towards an agreed approach to the Millennium Assembly, my Government believes that the world community should focus on major global challenges likely to confront humankind in the next century. We agree with the Secretary-General that, alongside war and conflicts, natural disasters are a major and priority global challenge. Natural disasters remain a most serious threat to human lives and national economies. As we have seen in recent times, natural disasters occur widely and indiscriminately, not stopping at any border. At this moment, we think especially of communities whose lives and property have been affected in Greece, Turkey, Taiwan, the United States and the Bahamas. The world has experienced three times as many great natural disasters in the 1990s as in the 1960s, the year 1998 being the hottest year on record and the worst for weather-related natural disasters. Yet we learn with dismay from the Secretary-General’s report that emergency aid funds have declined by 40 per cent in the past five years alone. For small island States such as the Bahamas, these “once-in-a-century” events are occurring with alarming frequency and severity. They are truly calamitous in effect. Hurricane Floyd was the fourth- strongest hurricane measured this century. My own country has not been spared. We can only be thankful that our neighbours and traditional friends come so readily to our assistance at moments of disaster. Our Pacific neighbours, Australia, Japan and New Zealand, continue to be at the forefront of emergency and rehabilitation efforts in disasters affecting our Pacific region. Countries far from the Pacific, such as those of the European Union, have also been generous. Even 2 developing nations have not been hesitant in coming to our help. In the major disasters that have devastated our country, the People’s Republic of China in particular, despite the severe and regular natural disasters it itself suffers, has been unstinting in helping our country in those difficult times. China last week commemorated the fiftieth anniversary of the establishment of the Republic. Samoa joins other nations in congratulating the People’s Republic of China in reaching this important milestone in its history. The immediate practical needs are to determine what preventive action might be available, especially to the small and vulnerable. Advanced early-warning systems using satellite-derived data and Internet dissemination would be essential, as would be the need to train and improve capacities. Greater efforts to establish contingency planning and other preparedness measures for disaster-prone countries are required. In all these, active cooperation at all levels — national, regional and international — would be vital. Above all, we agree that we should maximize the lessons learned from the experience of the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction. It is critical for all countries, especially the most vulnerable, that this work be continued. Samoa adds its voice to the expression of outrage at the violations in East Timor. These are violations of principles and of Government responsibilities, violations against the innocent and defenceless. The real lesson of East Timor is that a people’s aspirations for freedom will triumph in the end. They cannot be suppressed for ever. Indeed, their balloted choice is abundantly clear. It is also the lesson of East Timor that the United Nations is best placed to safeguard rights and freedoms while ensuring order and security. We are relieved that the multinational force is now in position and we appreciate the ready and effective response of key States, including our South Pacific neighbours, Australia and New Zealand. Samoa is especially grateful for the clear and committed leadership taken by Australia. The violations to which I have referred reinforce the need for the world community to move as expeditiously as possible to complete the establishment of the International Criminal Court. Those responsible for these unacceptable acts of violence and crime must be brought to account. Samoa was able to contribute to the making of the Rome Statute. We are firmly committed to the early establishment of the Court, and we will continue to play a role in the work of the Preparatory Commission. We believe very firmly that the Court will provide an essential step in the name of human rights and the rule of law. To this end we should ensure prompt and widespread ratification of the Court’s Statute. Speaking now in Samoa's role as Chairman of the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) and on behalf of the forty-three members of our Alliance, allow me, Mr President, to thank you most sincerely for the time and effort you have devoted to the special session to ensure its success. I also wish to express to all Member States, to the United Nations agencies and intergovernmental and non- governmental organizations, our very deep appreciation for their participation in the twenty-second special session in the past two days. The AOSIS countries are especially grateful for the expressions of commitment, understanding and support. What we have heard provides additional motivation for us to make the Barbados Programme of Action one of real and sustained implementation. There are critical challenges that require attention. We are determined to turn those challenges into opportunities. With your support, we believe there is every prospect for achievement.  So it is Africa, through two of its most devoted and eminent sons, that has the particular honour of leading the United Nations into the new millennium. I refer to you, Mr. President, a worthy freedom fighter for our sister nation, Namibia; I now salute your well-deserved election to the presidency of the General Assembly. I refer also to Mr. Kofi Annan, our Secretary-General, to whom the international community is indebted for the great perseverance and fervour he has shown in his promotion of the purposes and principles of the Charter and in strengthening the role of the United Nations. I am very moved to address this Assembly, because, by electing me 25 years ago to the presidency at its twenty- ninth session, the General Assembly was even then showing its esteem for and interest in Africa and its consideration for all of those generations of freedom fighters who, like those of my country, have assumed the historic responsibility of making a decisive contribution to the advent of a better world. Twenty-five years have passed during which the inexorable movement towards freedom has followed its course, toppling the last bastions of colonialism and racial segregation, and enshrining the right to sovereign equality of States and the right of peoples to development, self-determination and independence. At the same time, a new situation has emerged marked by greater interdependence between nations, which, as they have gradually become more and more aware of the unity of their destinies, can no longer afford to live in isolation nor remain indifferent or insensitive when something happens to one of their members. I have therefore come to speak about this common destiny, on behalf of Africa and Algeria, at a time when our session has chosen the theme of the culture of peace and non-violence. Throughout this century, the world has constantly evolved, created, destroyed, reinvented itself and moved forward. Despite ideological conflicts and economic crises, political tensions and devastating wars, humanity has made its way inexorably towards one and the same history — one and the same destiny. New challenges are today confronting the international community in a context occasioned by the easing of ideological struggles, the end of the cold war and the creation of a unipolar world, with its inherent paradoxes for development. One of these challenges is what is today called globalization: a global economy, a global political system, even global values and aspirations — but also, global problems and dangers. In any case, implementation of globalization is encountering a variety of barriers and obstacles. On the economic side, unequal development between nations certainly does not facilitate the establishment of a universally accepted new world order. Worrying gaps are beginning to appear, especially in Africa: a chronic deterioration in the terms of trade; a crushing weight of debt; fratricidal conflicts; environmental degradation; increasing unemployment; persistent epidemics; falling numbers of children in school; declining official development assistance and meagre direct investment. Furthermore, two thirds of the least developed countries and three quarters of the low- income countries are in Africa. In addition, 50 per cent of the continent’s population live in abject poverty. The thirty-fifth Organization of African Unity (OAU) Summit showed that Africans were ready to face 11 up to this miserable situation by working for peace, stability and cooperation and by entrenching political and economic reform more firmly. But it also revealed how insubstantial North-South cooperation is, showing that it is often limited by policies based on vested interests or selective intervention. The Summit also pointed out the difficulties inherent in the social, cultural and psychological structure of our countries, with many misunderstandings resulting from the mechanical application of criteria adopted in developed countries not only in the economic but also in the political and cultural areas. The problems which have still to be solved are therefore numerous, and the international community sees them every day in Africa, Asia, the Balkans and the Middle East. To these problems must be added the global controversy between the champions of an optimistic universality that easily tolerates the advent of and adjustment to a unipolar world, and those who retain a sense of their own identity and consider, rightly, that the interests of mankind lie in constructing a multipolar world. These problems do not, however, mean that all hopes for harmonious globalization are purely utopian: they merely represent obstacles to an evolution which we know is unavoidable. What would be an illusion, however, would be globalization of the impossible, globalization that ignores the legitimate interests of humankind as a whole, because sooner or later that would be doomed to failure. The globalization of problems is a fact of life; that is why it is imperative for us to find global solutions. It cannot be overemphasized how discouraging it is to see such a constantly widening gap between rich and poor and between rich countries and Third World countries that are stifled by debt. I certainly do not intend to complain to the Assembly about the many upheavals of a “Third Worldism” whose approach and methods are at least 20 years old and have become obsolete. The world is no longer as it was in the 1970s; it has changed radically. It seems to me, however, that this movement towards pluralism and the market economy should be continued and encouraged, and that it should be accompanied by a movement towards solidarity. In fact, I believe that the logic of power and confrontation that has marked the twentieth century should give way to a logic of solidarity that will make international relations more humane, based on fair exchange and shared prosperity. The progress of nations would be incomplete if we restricted ourselves to seeking it solely through the market. We must also continue to seek it simply by promoting the most basic human rights. In sharing the idea of human rights, it must be made clear that the definition and observance of human rights must take into account the context of each of our States, with their differing traditions, social structures and priorities. For us, human rights are balanced by the duties of the citizen and governed by inescapable priorities. Apart from the struggle against poverty, disease and illiteracy — ensuring that every human being has the right to a decent and dignified life — is it not true that human rights also mean the protection of society from terrorism, drug traffickers and purveyors of death of every kind? In this respect, there are no discrepancies between our concerns and those of the developed world on the issue of democracy and human rights. Nevertheless, it remains true that these are issues of utmost importance and highest priority. This is why we believe that the idea of the progress of the human race, and its emergence into the twenty-first century through the adoption of the laws of the free market, freedom of investment and other freedoms, cannot be separated from its progress through development aid and solidarity with Third World countries. In other words, our interest should be focused on the renewal of international action within the United Nations system so as to adapt it to the new world contexts, to help it respond to the legitimate expectations of the great majority of nations and to bring about renewed progress towards peace, stability, equity and shared prosperity. I come from a continent where people need to have faith in justice, because they believe that the countries which exploited their resources to ensure their own development have a heavy debt to repay. They need to believe that, having given so much to building human civilization in the modern era, they have the right to demand that their dignity and their humanity should be fully respected. I seek also to remind this Assembly that, by letting poverty proliferate in a world which is becoming increasingly interdependent, the rich countries and the community of nations are paving the way for disruptions in national life and for international relations that will be increasingly susceptible to threats of violence, conflict and discord, which are harmful to democracy and to economic activity. I also wish to recall that the failure of the Third World, and of Africa in particular, to make itself heard — a failure reflected in the results of the Uruguay Round — 12 does not augur well for solutions to all the problems that I have mentioned. Does our degeneration mean that we are irrevocably doomed to decline, and that the poverty of the majority is irremediably bound to dominate the coming century? I prefer not to believe that that is the case; I prefer to believe rather that recovery is possible so long as concerted and sustained action is taken in parallel with action by the United Nations. Such action must have two tiers. The first tier lies with the industrialized countries because the solution to the Third World’s problems is in their hands, as the Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund rightly stated over ten years ago: they have sufficient economic, financial and legislative leverage to initiate reform and to restore an environment conducive to growth for the developing countries. The second tier lies with the developing countries themselves, which must take on the essential task of becoming self-reliant by organizing their entry into the world economy and by following through with economic and political reforms. Unfortunately, they have no other choice. It is against this background that Africans met last July in Algiers, where the thirty-fifth Organization of African Unity (OAU) Summit was held. During this meeting, which enjoyed a record number of participants, Africans took stock of their achievements since independence, weighed up current reforms in the light of external forces and internal realities and laid down the foundations of a new approach to and a new vision of the future of the continent. Priority was given to concord and peace in Africa. Africa is determined to speed up the settlement of the conflicts between Eritrea and Ethiopia and in the Great Lakes region, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Sierra Leone. Activities within OAU and the subregional organizations have been intensified towards restoring peace and putting an end to the suffering of the refugees. Similarly, Africa has unequivocally stated that it supports international legality, democracy and respect for law, and accordingly it has set out the guidelines for the OAU position on the situations in Angola and in Western Sahara. It fully supports the United Nations initiatives there, as it does the OAU good offices in the Comoros, where it hopes that the Comoran people will proceed with democratic elections for their institutions so as to preserve the country’s unity and territorial integrity. A concern for peace and concord also underlies Africa’s assessment of the Middle East peace process, which it hopes will come to a comprehensive, fair and lasting solution based on withdrawal by Israel from the territories unjustly occupied by it and on its recognition of the Palestinian people’s legitimate and inalienable rights. OAU is similarly concerned about peace and security in the Gulf, where economic sanctions that are disastrous for the affected populations should be lifted, as should those unjustly imposed against Libya and Sudan even though their Governments have fully cooperated with the relevant investigations. The human race must enter the new millennium free of the disputes born of the historical vicissitudes of the tormented and tragic century now drawing to its close. In this context, hotbeds of tension and crises must be eliminated. The suffering of peoples who are still unable to exercise their right to self-determination and independence must end. The embargo imposed on the Iraqi people must be resolved in a less harmful way, as our Secretary-General of OAU would say, in keeping with United Nations resolutions. Terrorism, organized crime, drug and arms trafficking — which undermine relations between States and weaken peaceful and fruitful international cooperation — must be a top priority. New, ethical international relations should also be prioritized in order to usher in a new era of peace and common prosperity. The Algiers Summit, however, did not restrict itself to expressing, clearly, Africa’s desire to bring to an end the tragic phase of conflicts which are tearing it apart, and to go along, step by step, with the efforts of the international community to institute a just and long-lasting peace everywhere in the world. The Summit also studied economic and development issues within the framework of the Abuja Treaty, consolidating macroeconomic reforms through the revival of sustained growth and through regional integration within the framework of African unity, the principle of which has just been enshrined by the Sirte special Summit. The Sirte Summit reaffirmed OAU solidarity with and support for fraternal Libya concerning the need for a final lifting of the unfair embargo imposed upon it. It decided also to establish new rules and norms to facilitate the development of operational structures and modalities for OAU with a view to achieving effective union between the countries of Africa. Such a union will 13 guarantee Africa’s security and strengthen cooperation between its peoples, which will gain Africa the respect and status it deserves in the light of the heavy cost it has paid throughout history in sacrifice, slavery, exploitation and despoliation during the colonial era. Such a union will also promote Africa’s material and human potential and all that makes it so different from the rest of the world. In short, the Sirte Summit has reaffirmed in full the right of Africa to be an active part of the globalization process. As a result, justice will be equal for all, and the new concepts introduced by globalization will be immunized against any form of injustice, abuse or exclusion. The Summit also affirmed the necessity of advancing new reforms in the context of cooperation and partnership between the United Nations and OAU in all fields. Lastly, the Summit proposed a new ethics for international relations, where the requirements of production and competition should obscure neither the higher interest of humanity — whose very existence is under threat from all kinds of environmental degradation and other scourges affecting the natural world, humankind and human values and institutions — nor the rights of nation States to their integrity and sovereignty. We do not deny the right of northern-hemisphere public opinion to denounce the breaches of human rights where they exist. Nor do we deny that the United Nations has the right and the duty to help suffering humanity. But we remain extremely sensitive to any undermining of our sovereignty not only because sovereignty is our final defence against the rules of an unjust world, but because we have no active part in the decision-making process in the Security Council nor in monitoring the implementation of decisions. Furthermore, inasmuch as the sovereign state remains beyond dispute a place of social contract and the context within which human rights should be organized — political rights, as well as economic and social ones — the international community should favour stability as well as concord and the culture of democracy for our developing countries. But all this will remain a dream so long as the real issues at stake, those of economic and social development, have not been clearly set out, because, for Africa as for other continents, these issues are the crux of the matter. The debate on the concept of interference in internal affairs consequently seems far from over, as at least three questions require exact answers: first, where does aid stop and interference begin? Second, where are the lines to be drawn between the humanitarian, the political and the economic? Third, is interference valid only in weak or weakened States or for all States without distinction? In any event, we firmly believe that interference in internal affairs may take place only with the consent of the State in question. We firmly believe that the countries of the South are capable of overcoming their difficulties, so long as solidarity, loyal assistance and the concern of the developed countries and the international community do not fail them. Algeria has paid a very heavy price for democracy, and like other African countries must shoulder the high social cost of the reforms which it is undertaking. It has embarked upon a vast project of national renewal. It is working hard to ensure civil concord, enhance democracy, establish the rule of law and renew and modernize its judicial system and administration. In short, we are working to create conditions for the best possible use of the country’s economic potential and for individual and collective well-being in a society where peace has been restored and where free enterprise, justice and dignity are guaranteed for all. This is an enormous undertaking, but a necessary one after a decade of ordeals in what was a war in everything but name — a war that was inflicted on us, and which allowed terrorism and extremism to do violence against society, values, dignity and people’s consciences. My country is re-emerging, slowly, from these tragic events, which were foreign to Islam. Many things have been said in various forums about this ordeal which engulfed my country — most often, alas, by people who are hostile to or who have only a superficial knowledge of Algerian society and its problems. I will refrain here from condemning anyone’s opinions, but I do believe that when a people has been exposed to a tragedy like the one in Algeria, for a whole decade, and has faced up to it with the courage and tenacity which the Algerian people have shown, then that people should at the least have the right to use its own Republic’s institutions to defend itself. Yes, my country has been wounded — the very flesh of its children has been wounded. Tens of thousands of them are dead — some victims of fanaticism, some victims of others’ madness. In general terms, people have been victimized by the general confusion that nearly brought the Republic to its knees, hence Algeria’s overwhelming desire to defend its existence. 14 In this context of passions unleashed, disorder, the instinct for murder, the marginalization of society, devastating nihilism and blood and tears, men, women and children have lived through untold suffering and the country’s infrastructure has been flagrantly and blindly destroyed, with extremely negative effects on our economy. Today the Algerian people are licking their wounds. The main thrust of our national recovery is civil concord; this shows the innate magnanimity of our people and our unshakeable commitment to the lofty values of tolerance which characterize true Islam. Today, the Algerian people are rejecting violence because it is not part of our tradition. They are committed to pivotal human rights, as they were during their struggle for independence and during the building of their country. They proved this in the referendum of 16 September by saying a resounding 'yes' to the law on civil concord adopted by the Parliament in July. They proved this also by opening their hearts and extending the hand of generosity to those who had defied society and the laws of the Republic. They are proving it through their reliance on the law, itself increasingly inspired by the lofty ideals of the State of law and which, without being repressive, may not be broken by anyone, including the State. They have proved it because, true to their own selves, they know that peace and solidarity alone are the keys to economic and social progress. The principles which we are recommending in international relations we are also resolutely endeavouring to implement at home, on a national level. With the restoration of peace, we shall consolidate all freedoms. We will irreversibly establish a culture of democracy and pluralism. We are currently committed to eliminating all bureaucratic obstacles to free economic activity throughout the country, endeavouring in this way to establish the rules of social liberalism and the market economy. On a regional level, we are pursuing negotiations with the European Union on an association agreement and on the Barcelona process. We shall spare no effort in relaunching the project to construct an Arab Maghreb Union on the basis of renewed inspiration, rational action and realistic aims established in such a way as to ensure a viable, reliable and long-lasting institution. Like other countries, Algeria will pursue its negotiations to become a member of the World Trade Organization. On an African level, it will work unceasingly towards the advancement of the economic integration agreements reached within the framework of the Organization of African Unity; to settle the conflicts that are tearing the continent apart; and to promote long-lasting peace, which is favourable to sustained development. In short, Algeria believes that in order to contribute in a useful manner to the future of the world, the peaceful settlement of conflicts, international stability, solidarity between nations and equity in international relations, Algeria must adapt to the economic and political realities of this world, modernize, reinforce and liberalize the general framework within which its economy operates, encourage private investment and ensure equal opportunity for all its citizens while ensuring their human development. This comprehensive and coherent action will be taken by my country in order to adapt to the way the world is now, so that it can succeed and so that it can gain its rightful place among the nations of the world, a place we first won thanks to our tradition of support for the ideals of this Organization. Algeria is slowly but surely beginning to get back on its feet. It has entered a period of convalescence. It has done so thanks to its people’s potential, vitality and energy and, thanks also to the solidarity shown by many sister nations and friends throughout the world. From this rostrum let me express the Algerian people’s deep gratitude for and recognition of that solidarity. We are at the end of one century and on the threshold of the next. We are at the end of one millennium and on the threshold of another. I share to some extent the belief that these milestones of our era do have an impact on the life and evolution of the human race. The twentieth century has had its moments of glory, notably in bringing colonialism to an end, in combating racism and in eliminating apartheid. But it has also had its setbacks and failures, manifested in persistent underdevelopment, in the not always successful struggle to eliminate poverty and in the never-ending quest for better concord between peoples. Will we draw enough inspiration from these milestones to turn around mindsets that still rigidly abide by outdated concepts of international life? Will we be able to hold out a fraternal hand to each other so that well-being can be better shared out in the world? Will we be capable of preparing a world for future generations that is better than the one in which we live? We can answer all these questions with a “yes”, and it is with these optimistic words of hope that I conclude my statement.At the outset, we would like to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your outstanding election to guide our work during the fifty-fourth session of the United Nations General Assembly and, through you, to pay a well-deserved tribute to your country, the Republic of Namibia. My country subscribes to the generally held view that your well-known diplomatic skills and broad experience will contribute to the success of our work. We also warmly congratulate the new Member States, Kiribati, Nauru and Tonga, on their admission to the great family of the United Nations. This is a great victory for the principles of free expression and self-determination of peoples and nations. That is the only way to enrich the democratic nature of the United Nations with the diversity and universality of mankind. It is with optimism and hope that we participate in this session of the General Assembly. We reaffirm our full commitment to the purposes and principles that were the basis for the establishment of the world Organization. We believe that its more than 50 years of existence, which have made their mark on the twentieth century and have helped bring about great social, political, economic and technological changes, constitute a positive legacy for the future of mankind. We have high hopes for this session because those long years of experience and the fact that we are about to enter the third millennium mean that we can talk of a United Nations jubilee for the new era, in which mankind should fully benefit from our achievement of the goals and ideals of a world of peace, free from war and conflict. We want all men and women to be able to enjoy their most inalienable rights — to freedom, dignity and equality — and we want all the world's nations and peoples to live in justice and equity. Ultimately, we want all human beings, without distinction and without discrimination, to enjoy the benefits of economic, social and cultural progress. But in spite of these long years of history, the end of the cold war, our long experience and the many events that have taken place in this half-century process — advances in the new technologies of space exploration, atomic science, remote sensing and other progress that is of incalculable value for the future of mankind — we note with concern that we have yet to guarantee peace and security for all nations. That is why we must adopt strategies and measures that will enable developing countries to take advantage of their opportunities for progress and that will make it possible for all people to enjoy the best possible living conditions on this, our home planet. We must make sure that, as our common heritage, education, science and technology reach all people so that human development can enable them to enjoy their rights to dignity and responsibility. We must examine our consciences and understand that it is we ourselves who are slowing the advance of human progress. The desire for power and world hegemony, exacerbated by extremism, ethnic and racial discrimination and intolerance and fanaticism born of political beliefs and theories, has created a climate of war, terror and insecurity in many parts of the world and could unleash a new world confrontation. The most striking examples of this may be seen in the situations in the Persian Gulf, the Balkans, the Middle East, Africa and Latin America, as well as in the recent escalation of violence in South-East Asia. Moreover, despite the demands of third-world countries and the attempts to establish a new world economic order that would be more just and equitable for all, the present unjust economic system continues to prevail, impeding trade between the North and the South. We must realize that the economic situation is an irreplaceable element of the balance of domestic and international peace and security: peace does not mean the mere absence of hostilities; it is a state of perfect harmony in human life in the economic, social, cultural and moral spheres. For Africa and for the Africans, political idealism can flourish only if it is attended by concrete action that will guarantee human survival and justify the aims of that idealism. Let us not forget that political idealism of any kind is based on a culture appropriate to the population in question. Here, human beings are the raw material, and the proper conditions must be present for the success of that kind of ideal political system. Hence, so long as the peoples of Africa suffer from hunger, poverty, war and pandemic disease, and so long as they are overwhelmed by cultural deficiencies, ignorance and illiteracy, efforts to democratize their States and ensure peace will always fail. It is said that an empty sack cannot stand by itself. Africa needs economic inputs, technology transfer for development, and recognition of its cultural and moral values, so that internecine struggle will cease and so that democracy and political theories will be employed in the most objective way. That is why Central African heads of States members of the Economic Commission of Central African States and of the Central African Economic and Monetary Commission, meeting at Malabo, Equatorial Guinea, from 23 to 26 June 1999, carefully studied all these factors and adopted, inter alia, strategies to prevent conflict in the region. They decided to establish a subregional parliament, a peacekeeping force and an institute for the promotion and defence of human rights. We hope that the United Nations will support these decisions. The reality is that in Africa there is strong pressure from underdevelopment, poverty, unemployment and illiteracy which justifies the flight of intellectuals and the current exodus of Africans to developed countries in search of a livelihood. Accordingly, we call for United Nations support for the decision adopted in Algeria by the heads of State of Africa to increase humanitarian support for the millions of African refugees, to amounts comparable to those given other regions. This is also for me a favourable opportunity to reaffirm our solidarity with the political will and the determination of the African States to speed up the mechanisms for integration and unity, to meet the challenges of globalization in order to ensure global development for mankind. In order for political and democratic systems to succeed in Africa, the economy and economic culture should have a key role among the elements that go along with them, for otherwise they would develop without any objective basis. Unfortunately, we find that currently there is no firm political will for cooperation between the North and South, as there was in the past. In fact, now there is just a clash of various selfish interests in which the strongest or the richest always win. At this time we recall the great projects of economic cooperation in post-war Europe which enlivened Europe, South-East Asia, Latin America and the Middle East. Attempts of the same kind have been sought for Africa with the construction of considerable infrastructure to help the peoples of this continent: for example, the Aswan dam in Egypt, hydroelectric power stations on the Volta 2 River in Ghana, in Inga in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in Mombasa in Tanzania. Unfortunately, this political will to aid the development of the continent has not continued. This, then, is the high price for the independence of African nations. The political development of the continent is now confronted with a number of difficulties and challenges. First is the need to establish sincere industrial cooperation with developed countries, instead of the present merciless extraction of natural resources and their exportation as raw materials, with no compensatory exchange for technologies to process them. Secondly, there is need to achieve fair prices in the exchange of natural resources for manufactured goods, as prices have not gone up more than 25 per cent since independence. A third challenge is that credit is given under conditions that do not allow the population to satisfy its needs nor to profit from corresponding investments, the debt for which is mortgaging the economy. Fourth, conditions are imposed on cooperation using political criteria that do not take into account the reality of African societies, as well as another series of conditions that funnel the benefits of the current international economic system to a powerful few. Nonetheless, we recognize and are grateful for the decision by the seven major industrialized countries to retire the debt of developing countries. We cherish the hope this political will may spread to all donor countries and that its application will not be according to selective and exclusionary criteria. Praiseworthy in the same way is the initiative by the Administration of the President of the United States of America to increase American investment in Africa, an initiative which we hope will be a second Marshall Plan for the African continent. Certainly, the consequences of selfishness and of unfair distribution of available resources have created, in the developed as much as in the developing countries, frustrated groups of people who today are a cause of political and social instability in many parts of the world. With respect to human resources, we must analyze in depth the causes of the current juvenile delinquency, organized crime, rape, kidnappings and indiscriminate killings, drug addiction and drug trafficking, alcoholism, prostitution, money laundering, counterfeiting, terrorism and corruption which exist at all social levels everywhere. All these practices challenge us and compromise the future of humanity. Our concern is that these behaviours make up our legacy for the generations of the third millennium. Does the new epoch to which we aspire beginning in the year 2000 presuppose the rise of some and the regression to poverty and misery of others? Can international peace and security guarantee protection only for some, denying it to others? Equatorial Guinea does not aspire to hegemony or power, yet we speak here with the conviction of the obligation that falls to us as a member of this democratic international community to ask for what is best for mankind. Socio-political development and technological advances tell us that we are in a different galaxy from that of earlier times. The United Nations is the only Organization that has exercised leadership in the process of the world's development. Yet after 54 years, we must realize that the terms of reference of the world's current socio-political reality are not those in effect in 1945. It is clear that the United Nations is similarly undergoing changes which correspond to this moment in history, in social philosophy, mechanisms, structure and action. Today we talk of democracy as the only way to promote the development of peoples, ensure peace and guarantee respect for human dignity. Today we talk of globalizing world politics and policies and of the governance of States because the concept of social development finds its justification only in the values of the individual. The United Nations should therefore take no action that is not in keeping with those values and is not a faithful expression of this interdependent, unipolar world that calls for unified criteria. We must make a special effort to help young people so that they can carry on the positive values of humankind for the sake of a more integrated, more developed, more just and more equitable world. The ideal of any governments must be to seek peace, progress and prosperity for its peoples. In this connection, the efforts of the countries that are fighting to 3 democratize their societies be properly appreciated and supported by countries with longer democratic experience. It has been proved that penalizing governments and peoples is counterproductive and makes them unable to promote national development however much they want to. The United Nations ought to assist these countries closely in their economic, social, technical and cultural advancement, in keeping with the spirit of globalization and the actual situation in each country. We believe that the current United Nations system is obsolete in terms both of decision-making and of the effectiveness of its actions when it comes to dealing properly with the difficulties and challenges facing its members. Indeed, the proliferation of peacekeeping operations in various parts of the world is proof that the current conflict-prevention system is obsolete. As an organization founded on democracy, the United Nations must establish the principle across the board that all parties must be given a hearing in all bodies, including the Security Council, that take decisions affecting its Members. Moreover, the most sophisticated nuclear technology should be employed exclusively as a common shared possession to be used for the benefit of all humankind rather than as private property that benefits some to the detriment of others. We believe that in globalizing world politics and policies, which is positive in theory in that it unifies socio- political criteria, States should nevertheless implement the philosophy by adopting specific measures that are in keeping with the specific characteristics of each country. In this connection, Equatorial Guinea has particular experience in implementing its programme of transition to a multi- party system by applying the theory of the democratic test, a way to involve the people in taking all the political decisions that affect them. As a result, our transition has been peaceful, orderly and calm because our people themselves, no one else, are responsible for the measures adopted, which all political actors must respect. A progressive and continuous process of adaptation by the authorities and by the people themselves is needed so that they acquire the right sort of culture in which human rights and democracy can be respected. In that connection, we welcome the efforts by the Commission on Human Rights to adopt a special assistance programme for Equatorial Guinea to promote and ensure respect for human rights there. We are party to all the human rights treaties and conventions and have adopted a wide-ranging framework of laws and regulations to protect human rights. However, the lack of infrastructure makes it difficult for the people to enjoy in full the various services to which they are entitled. I would conclude by making clear our political resolve to contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security, promote close friendship and mutually beneficial cooperation between all States and promote economic, scientific and technological development throughout the world. The Republic of Equatorial Guinea stands open to the world as a peaceful State that puts dialogue and negotiation first, rejecting force of any kind as a means of resolving conflicts. We hope that the year 2000, which is almost on us, will become a milestone in establishing a world truly committed to peace, progress and prosperity for humankind. The delegation of Panama is particularly gratified to welcome your election, Sir, to the presidency of the General Assembly at this session. We are pleased that the noble people of Africa, whose aspiration to progress is shared by Panamanians, are so well represented in this forum, with you at the head of our deliberations and another distinguished African, Mr. Kofi Annan, leading the Secretariat. We join in the congratulations conveyed to you in recognition of your capacity and your skills, as well as in the expressions of gratitude addressed to the Secretary-General for his dedication to the Organization and his tireless efforts to maintain international peace and security. To your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Uruguay, I also wish to convey our appreciation for the outstanding way in which he conducted our debates and his contribution to the success of the deliberations of the Assembly. My warmest congratulations, on behalf of the people and the Government of Panama, go also to the representatives of Kiribati, Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga, States which were admitted to the United Nations on the first day of this session. This event confirms beyond question the universal and inclusive nature and purpose of this body devoted to fostering world peace and peoples' well-being. Today I am speaking on behalf of a young, proud nation that has written some illustrious pages in the history of the Latin American peoples' struggle to achieve nationhood. I am the spokesperson of a country where, according to the design of the liberator, Simón Bol'var, the first congress of the new nations of the continent took place. Here before the Assembly, I represent a State whose geographical location has given it an extraordinary role as a transit route, a country that has devoted itself heart and soul to the service of inter-oceanic transport and that, as a result, has had to wait until the end of the twentieth century to recover dominion over the whole of its territory. Along with my compatriots, I am filled with enthusiasm at the approach of the far-reaching event that is the handing over of the Panama Canal to Panamanian hands. On the eve of this tremendous event that arouses such great expectations, we must recognize the efforts of the many Panamanian men and women who, from the time we became an independent State, began the nationalist struggle to free ourselves from the burdens imposed on us by the first Canal Treaty, which was signed in 1903. Their patriotic deeds have been indelibly engraved in the history and the tradition of our people. Since its opening in 1914, the Canal has been an important symbol of our nationhood and the centre of the hopes of the Panamanian people to attain its development as a nation. The Canal, which turned us into the world's bridge and the heart of the universe, has given impetus to the economic progress of the international community in the course of eight and a half decades. The Panamanian people will now be able to participate fully in the prosperity that the inter-oceanic waterway generates because, at the threshold of the twenty-first century, Panama has determined that the Canal will be operated not only to punctually serve international trade, but also to promote sustainable human development. The administration of the Canal is therefore not simply a right, but also a responsibility that obligates all Panamanians to administer the waterway responsibly, efficiently and with absolute probity. We have prepared ourselves for this with redoubled care. The process for the legal transition of the Canal began in 1977 with the signing of the Panama Canal Treaty. That agreement recorded the commitment of the United States to transfer to Panama the administration and total control of the inter-oceanic waterway on 31 December 1999. Since then, the Governments of Panama and the United States of America have worked in harmony to bring about a seamless transition. Furthermore, and particularly since the 1989 restoration of constitutional rule, we Panamanians have agreed on the need to place the Canal above and beyond political differences. The fruit of this consensus was the fact that our political Constitution incorporates a provision for the Canal that stipulates how the waterway is to be administered from 31 December 1999. On the basis of that constitutional provision, adopted in 1994, and with the wide participation of society, we developed the Panama Canal Authority Act, which was adopted unanimously in the Legislative Assembly. Those two legal instruments, the constitutional provision and the Act, provide the necessary legal mechanisms to ensure proper operation of the inter- oceanic waterway. In recent years, the Canal has handled unprecedented volumes of traffic and cargo and has dealt with them with exemplary care and efficiency, fundamentally thanks to our precious human resources, who are almost all of Panamanian nationality. In order to guarantee its future operation, Panama is currently implementing an intensive programme of investment at an approximate cost of one billion balboas in order to modernize and improve the inter-oceanic waterway and to ensure that it is ready to cope with demand and to maintain the quality of its services. It is hoped that this modernization and improvement programme will augment the capacity of the Canal by 20 per cent. One of the priorities of the Canal Authority is to protect the environment. As the Act establishes, as of 31 December 1999 the Authority will have the responsibility of vigilance over and conservation of the Canal basin, as well as for coordinating the administration, conservation and use of the natural resources of that immense region. I should like to recognize the faultless way in which successive United States Governments have fulfilled the provisions of the Canal Treaty since it was signed in 1977. Thanks to them, it has been possible to overcome the obstacles that have been encountered over a long period of 20 years in the transfer of the inter-oceanic waterway and in the hand-over of the military bases that were established on our territory. Although there are several matters remaining for both Governments to confront, such as decontamination of certain areas designed for military use by the United States Army, my Government trusts that the differences that continue to exist on this point will be resolved satisfactorily in a reasonable period of time. The handover of the Canal to the jurisdiction of the Republic of Panama is an event of far-reaching importance not only for Panama and the United States, but for the international community as well. Consequently, Panamanians hope that the representatives of the international community will join in celebrating the commemorative events associated with the transition. Panamanians also hope that from now on the relations between Panama and the United States will be based on mutual respect, cooperation and equity in trade, in view of the tremendously strong nature of the historical, social, political and trading bonds that have joined the two nations since the last century. The benefits that control 2 over the Canal have yielded for the economy and the political standing of the United States determine that that nation should value the feeling of brotherhood that its leaders have for decades professed and truly act on them in order to begin a new period of relations with Panama that will enable us to boost sustainable human development, which is something the Panamanian people very much aspire to. In recent years, my country, like many others, has suffered the imposition of an economic orthodoxy applied more with an eye towards the interests of the major international economic sectors than to the true development of peoples, without any consideration being given to the values that underpin our nationhood. This is the real state of affairs that obliges my Government to review the orientation of our economic policy in order to promote the development of our people. We are particularly concerned with the development of rural communities. These communities make an invaluable contribution to the strength of our nationhood, but they are also the ones that have the greatest difficulties in the struggle to ensure their survival. The fundamental concern of my Government is bound up with improving the quality of life of the neediest. That objective depends to a large extent upon our efforts, but it also depends on our succeeding in opening new markets for our products and achieving greater participation for private investment in our country and greater cooperation with developed nations. At a time when the rights of women to equality and participation in the public life of nations are constantly being reaffirmed, I am proud to be the first Panamanian woman ever to receive from her people, in an unmistakeable manifestation of confidence, the mandate to serve the Republic as President. I interpret this mandate as a challenge calling on me to promote sustainable human development honestly and devotedly, in accordance with the universal political values that for half a century the Organization has been upholding with admirable persistence: the democratic system of government and respect for human rights. Consequently, I bear the heavy responsibility in following in the steps of my predecessors — exceptional leaders elected in democratic elections, such as Golda Meir, Indira Ghandi and Corazón Aquino, among others; and, in the western hemisphere, Eugenia Charles, Violeta Chamorro and Janet Jagan. They helped to realize the warranted aspiration that society should recognize women's skills and merits to share on an equal footing in the great political responsibility of presiding over a nation. For Panamanian women I represent a dream come true. In this respect, my election is a significant advance in the campaign to ensure political equality for the women of my country and the rest of the continent. However, many Panamanian women are being hard hit by poverty and destitution, an unacceptable situation that they share with children, older adults and men, whom so- called globalization takes no account of. If we wish to secure the sustainability of human life on this God-given earth, and if we wish to keep our promises as leaders, we must strive to eradicate hunger, poverty and destitution, which in my country afflict almost two-fifths of the population. If we wish to achieve these goals — which is what we were elected to do — we must root out corruption, which is the major obstacle standing in the way of achieving the lofty results that our societies expect of us. In this respect, I am pleased to assure the Assembly that Panama is doing everything in its power to put an end to the use and trafficking of drugs as well as to the money- laundering that is the result of that heinous phenomenon. We the leaders of nations have the opportunity to undertake measures that will significantly help to fashion a more just, more humane and fairer world governed by the fundamental principles of democracy, justice and liberty, for which my people, together with all the peoples of the world, have fought throughout history. I urge dignitaries and the representatives of Member States to embark resolutely on the struggle against poverty, destitution and corruption, which so adversely affect the living conditions of humankind. I would ask them to come with us to the rescue of the weak, of those who suffer unspeakable injustice and those whose way of life is threatened by invisible forces that they can neither understand nor control. My presence here is evidence of the Panamanians' firm belief in the order provided by this Organization, whose struggle to achieve equality among peoples and peace among nations dates back more than 50 years. This Organization has wholeheartedly championed human rights and battled against discrimination on all fronts. That is why we believe in the need to strengthen it, because the United Nations is the court in which the 3 voice of smaller States can be heard, as well as the ultimate champion of all of our rights. On account of the trust that my people have in the United Nations, I invite all of the dignitaries and representatives of Member States to join with us in celebrating the recovery of the sovereignty that we never resigned ourselves to losing. At this historic moment, which Panamanians wish to share with the whole of humankind, the bells of the world will ring out in jubilation because the principle of sovereignty, so often proclaimed in this and other international forums, will have been translated into reality in my country. May God, the source of all authority, guide the deliberations of the Assembly. Let me congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the high office of President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. We are confident that under your able leadership we will be able to address successfully the items on our agenda. Please allow me also to convey our appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, for his considerable contribution to the work of the General Assembly at its fifty-third session. We pay a tribute to the Secretary-General for his efforts to meet the unprecedented and complex challenges facing the United Nations. On the threshold of the third millennium — as at the beginning of this century — the world community must deal with substantive issues of war and peace. On the one hand, the process of globalization, which is unfolding before our eyes, has triggered a rich flow of ideas, capital, technologies, goods and services all around the world, having profoundly transformed our societies. Philosophically, mankind has taken a big step forward towards qualitatively new dimensions of existence. On the other hand, the world continues to be rocked by conflicts rooted in causes that have become compounded despite the advent of global technologies and communications. First among the causes of conflict is ethnic, national and religious intolerance. It is absolutely unacceptable that this most dangerous virus is spreading rapidly throughout many regions of today's world, giving rise to terrorist acts and bloody conflicts. The danger is that people affected by conflicts look for the sources of their troubles among other nationalities and religions. As a result, we face a vicious circle wherein death and desperation reign unchecked. We are confident that civilized society, by pooling its resources, will eventually be able to break out of this vicious circle, having convinced people of the benefits of a conflict-free existence. If we talk about the antagonism between war and peace, then we have every right to demand the use of means to enforcing a sustainable peace, including military means. At the same time, it is impossible to ignore the fact that the present world order is in desperate need of reliable measures to ensure balance between the essential elements of its support structures. Kazakhstan shares the view of those States which believe that in the next century the world should be multi-polar and free of centres of power and dividing lines, confrontations and showdowns, interference in the internal affairs of others and imposition of policy directives. Cooperation and mutual understanding, democracy and sustainable development will define the core of the coming world order. We believe that the United Nations remains a unique intergovernmental institution that ensures a positive trend in the development of international relations. Kazakhstan calls for a strengthening of the United Nations, the only forum that is universal both in terms of its composition and in terms of the comprehensiveness of its agenda. Only the United Nations has the right to address fundamental issues of peace and security. The Yugoslav crisis has clearly demonstrated how urgent the issue of strengthening the authority of the United Nations has become. We are becoming increasingly convinced of the need to enhance the responsibility of the Security Council for the maintenance of international peace and security and to make authorization of certain actions its exclusive prerogative. The nature of many conflicts makes this an especially challenging task. That is why we believe that to be able to adapt to new political realities, the Security Council should enter the twenty-first century renewed and strengthened through the admission of new permanent members, first of all Japan and Germany, as well as non- permanent members representing different regions of the world. The efforts to consolidate the international regime for the non-proliferation of all weapons of mass destruction and put in place effective controls over the production of fissile material remain at the centre of our policy for achieving global security and stability. Kazakhstan has made an important contribution to non-proliferation and to putting an end to nuclear-weapon testing. We consider the decision to admit Kazakhstan to 21 membership of the Conference on Disarmament as adequate recognition of our actions in this direction. Renunciation of nuclear weapons and accession to the Non-Proliferation Treaty and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty have become natural choices for our country, which has felt the full brunt of the harmful effects of nuclear testing. Kazakhstan vigorously advocates further consolidation of the non-proliferation regime, and supports the initiative to establish a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia. Our country has consistently called for the creation of security structures in Asia. As is well known, at the Assembly's forty-seventh session, the President of Kazakhstan, Mr. Nursultan Nazarbaev, put forward an initiative to convene a Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia (CICA). On 14 September, the opening day of the current General Assembly session, after seven years of negotiations and discussions, Almaty hosted the first meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the Asian States members of the Conference. Government officials responsible for foreign policy signed a Declaration of Principles Guiding Relations between CICA Member States which confirmed the Asian States' strong commitment to and goodwill towards efforts to ensure security and stability in the region. Thus, for the first time in history, a legal foundation for an Asian security system has been laid. It is difficult to overestimate the significance of this development in the context of the international community's efforts to strengthen international security. We are talking here about a region that is home to more than 3.5 billion people and that accounts for more than 40 per cent of world trade. We are grateful to all the States participating in the CICA process for their support for our initiative and for their genuine willingness to work together to build a security system for Asia. I take this opportunity to express our appreciation to Secretary-General Annan, for his close attention to and support for the initiative by Kazakhstan. Recent political developments attest to how urgent the need is to create a security system in Asia. I refer here to terrorist incursions in southern Kyrgyzstan and to terrorist acts in the Northern Caucasus in Russia. From the point of view of security in our region, we believe that the outcome of the latest summit of the “Shanghai Five” is very important. Its participants created a mechanism of confidence providing for transparency in military activity and reduction of those activities in border areas, settlement of border issues and a regular exchanges of information on military activities. The heads of the five States believe that multipolarity reflects a general trend in the development of the contemporary world and contributes to the long-term stability of the international situation. Kazakhstan calls for a lasting and just peace in Afghanistan within the negotiation process, according to the “six plus two” formula. At the same time, we believe that the Afghan peace process should involve all the States concerned. For this reason, Kazakhstan supports the proposal to convene a representative international conference in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan, on the settlement of the conflict in Afghanistan. Kazakhstan highly appreciates the United Nations efforts to promote the integration of the economies in transition into the world economy. Our country counts on continued cooperation with the United Nations on the issues of consultative services and technical assistance. We are firmly committed to the policy of deepening regional economic cooperation and actively using for this purpose the capacity of the United Nations. Our country is satisfied with its cooperation with the Economic Commission for Europe and the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific in the elaboration and implementation of the Special Programme for the Economies of Central Asia. We support the revival of the Silk Road. Geographically, Kazakhstan, along with other Central Asian States, plays the role of a bridge connecting the two continents. During the era of the Roman Empire trade routes between Rome and Shanghai passed through the region. The revival of the Silk Road will boost the economic development of the Central Asian region. In current conditions it is envisioned that the Silk Road will be revived by building on three pillars: energy, a transcontinental transportation system and telecommunications. The thrust of this project — which reflects global, regional and local interests — is to develop the natural resources of the region, first of all its large oil and gas fields. One has to bear in mind, however, that no large-scale pipeline project can be realized without the hydrocarbon resources of Kazakhstan. In view of the increased competition in the world energy-carriers markets, Kazakhstan is giving priority attention to the construction of oil and gas pipelines. The northern Caspian pipeline consortium project, scheduled for completion in 2001, is a top priority for our country, 22 because when it is operational Kazakhstan will be able to double, at a minimum, both its oil production and its export deliveries to foreign markets. We pin many of our hopes on the development of the hydrocarbon resources of the Caspian Sea shelf. For this reason we believe that the issue of the legal status of this sea is of fundamental importance. Kazakhstan commends a breakthrough agreement with Russia on the delimitation of the seabed in the northern part of the Caspian Sea on the basis of a modified median line. The issues of sustainable development, environmental protection and rehabilitation of ecological disaster areas have become especially pressing at the end of this century, and demand immediate action. Kazakhstan is interested in the mobilization of the international community to solve environmental problems, because it has disaster areas, such as the region of the former Semipalatinsk nuclear testing ground, the dying Aral Sea and other zones. Our country, which suffers from desertification and floods, is also directly affected by global climate changes. On behalf of the Government of Kazakhstan, I would like to express our great appreciation to the States concerned for their support for the efforts to overcome the serious social, ecological and humanitarian problems of the Semipalatinsk region. The adoption of two General Assembly resolutions on international cooperation and coordination for the human and ecological rehabilitation and economic development of the Semipalatinsk region has undoubtedly contributed to an interest in and reflection on the outstanding issues. Special words of appreciation are due to the Government of Japan and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) for sponsoring an international conference convened at the beginning of September in Tokyo. The outcome of this representative forum reverberated throughout our country. We consider this conference a practical contribution by the Government of Japan and the UNDP to the implementation of the relevant General Assembly resolutions. In this regard, I cannot miss this opportunity to recognize important work by the International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations Children's Fund, the United Nations Population Fund and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, as well as by the donor countries that acted as cosponsors of the conference. Kazakhstan is taking concrete steps to democratize its society and to deepen its political reforms. Kazakhstan's head of State has introduced a programme that covers such important areas as elections, political parties, the Parliament, the judicial system, the status of women and the mass media. Earlier this year the first open and contested presidential elections were held in Kazakhstan. The refinement of the election process continues. The law on elections has been amended to reflect the recommendations of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Its provisions will be used in the parliamentary elections scheduled for this October. The election process is becoming more representative, encouraging active involvement of candidates and voters. A programme of phased transition to holding elections for local and regional governments is being developed. The role of non-governmental organizations, an important element of a civil society, is being enhanced. The judicial system and the mass media are steadily becoming more independent. Achieving an open society, with a market economy, is the course for Kazakhstan's further development. The process of democratization in our country is gaining momentum and has become irreversible. Along with political reforms, Kazakhstan is taking vigorous actions to protect the long-term interests of foreign investors. Our objective is to ensure — through the creation of a favourable investment climate in the country — its full integration into the world economic system of today. Kazakhstan expresses support for the efforts of the Secretary-General to reform the Organization in order to enhance its effectiveness and capability to respond adequately to emerging problems and challenges. We believe that concrete results in the renewal of the Organization can be achieved only through joint efforts of all Member States. That is why all States should continue their coordinated efforts to strengthen the role of the United Nations in the promotion of global stability and security in the next century.   Allow me first of all to sincerely congratulate Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab on his unanimous election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session and to express confidence that under his skilful leadership the Assembly will cope successfully with the complex issues before it. I would like also to commend the President of the previous session of the General Assembly, Mr. Didier Opertti, on his remarkable commitment to the success of the session. I wish also to congratulate and to welcome the new Members of our Organization — the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. Speaking from this lofty rostrum, representatives of the States Members of the United Nations are trying to communicate to their colleagues and the international community the most pressing problems that their countries face. The truth, which is not always pleasant, is expressed here with hope for justice, understanding and support. States, including the Republic of Azerbaijan, that have regained their freedom and now face threats to their independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity, count on the support of the international community. They are also deeply concerned about the current difficulties of the Organization. Member States look to the United Nations with trust and hope. This places on the Organization an important responsibility for finding a way out of the current complex situation. In this connection, the Republic of Azerbaijan actively supports the United Nations reform process, which our times demand. We believe that a transformed Organization, adapted to modern realities, will be in a position to cope with an increasing number of challenges and risks to international peace and security. Threats to the sovereignty, territorial integrity and security of the Member States of the United Nations have become appallingly routine. States often face aggression, military occupation, “ethnic cleansing”, separatism and terrorism. A conflict that is not dealt with in a timely and resolute manner is later transformed into a humanitarian disaster that brings about a very sensitive reaction on the part of the international community. Given the resolute action by the international community in the Balkans, the situation with regard to the unresolved or frozen conflicts in other regions seems especially tragic. We consider it unacceptable to set priorities in this respect, and wish to draw the attention of the international community to the intolerable fact that 15 one fifth of the territory of a sovereign Member State of the United Nations — the Republic of Azerbaijan — has continued to be under foreign occupation for more than six years and that, as a result of “ethnic cleansing”, one out of seven of its citizens is a refugee or displaced person in his own country. The clear trend towards putting up with the behaviour of the aggressor and sometimes even conniving at his attempts to legalize the situation in the conflict zone, as well as the eagerness of some mediators to reach an easy settlement on the basis that the “ethnic cleansing” of the Azerbaijani population and the occupation of its territories is a fait accompli, will only lead to continued tension and further delay the prospects for a settlement of the conflict and the restoration of durable peace and stability in the region, based on the norms and principles of international law. The only valid premise for a lasting settlement of conflicts is a timely display of determination and solidarity by the international community, first and foremost by the United Nations, which has primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security, for the protection and observation of the norms and principles of international law and for making every effort to secure the implementation of decisions taken. Like other countries facing aggression and militant separatism, Azerbaijan rejects settlement models that infringe on its sovereignty, territorial integrity and the unity of its State and run counter to its national interests. An example is the concept of the common State, which was proposed as a model for settlement in the context of certain conflicts, but failed to find the support of the countries concerned. That concept is pernicious, because it attempts to distort the notion of statehood and State sovereignty; in fact, it is an attempt to provide a legal framework for the ideology of militant separatism. It goes without saying that an important factor in any settlement is the readiness of the parties involved to find a compromise. At the same time, by definition, compromise implies reciprocity and clear limits. Seeking a realistic formula for a compromise based on adherence to the norms and principles of international law, taking into account national and State interests, the President of Azerbaijan, Heydar Aliyev, has maintained direct contact and held talks with the President of Armenia, Robert Kocharian. It is Azerbaijan’s hope that this approach can open new possibilities to steer the settlement process out of the deadlock that we have witnessed during the past year. It is now possible to speak about the achievement of a positive climate, which should be complemented with more active work by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) Minsk Group, which is responsible for the settlement of the Armenia-Azerbaijan conflict, so that the negotiation process can be resumed in the near future. We regard it as absolutely unjustified that some members of the Minsk Group use the fact that there are direct contacts between Azerbaijan and Armenia as an excuse for their stepping aside from the process and for their inactivity. In this connection, we call upon the Co-Chairmen of the Minsk Group to make every effort necessary to bring about in the near future a revised proposal for the settlement of the conflict that would represent an acceptable combination of elements. It will be necessary effectively to use the time remaining before the OSCE summit in Istanbul in order to come closer to achieving concrete results. It is extremely important that the consistency and determination of the international community be maintained in advocating its declared positions on the settlement of the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan. We believe, in particular, that the sequence of steps provided for in the Security Council resolutions on the conflict continues to be optimal. Azerbaijan reaffirms its commitment to a peaceful settlement and unconditional implementation of the ceasefire until a political agreement on the cessation of the conflict is concluded. Guided by a spirit of goodwill and a sincere desire to reach progress in the settlement process, on 18 September 1999, during the visit of Knut Vollebaek, the Chairman-in-office of the OSCE, the President of Azerbaijan, Heydar Aliyev, announced the unilateral release of all Armenian prisoners of war held in Azerbaijan. We expect an adequate reaction from the Armenian side in the near future. Azerbaijan supports the reform process in the Organization, based on the proposals of the Secretary-General and the decisions of the General Assembly. Reform of the Security Council continues to be the priority problem. Azerbaijan fully agrees with the approach reflected in resolution 53/30, in accordance with which any decisions on this issue would require the positive vote of a minimum of two thirds of the Member States. We still believe that the representation of the States of Asia, Africa and Latin America in all membership categories of the Security Council should reflect modern 16 political realities. Azerbaijan reconfirms its support for the election of Germany and Japan as permanent members of the Security Council. We continue to believe that, together with that, objective reality calls for the allocation of one additional non-permanent seat to the Eastern European Group. With regard to the reform and strengthening of the effectiveness of the work of the Security Council, I cannot fail to draw the attention of the Assembly to the fact that the four resolutions adopted by the Security Council on the Armenia-Azerbaijan conflict, resolutions 822 (1993), 853 (1993), 874 (1993) and 884 (1993), have still not been implemented. We believe that the lack of an adequate reaction to the violation of the principles of the United Nations Charter and the non-compliance with decisions adopted within the United Nations is seriously undermining the image of the world Organization. Azerbaijan welcomes the increased attention of the Security Council to acute humanitarian problems in conflict situations, and supports the inclusion in the mandate of peacekeeping forces of concrete and adequate provisions for the demilitarization of conflict zones and the disarmament of combatants, as well as of special provisions on the protection of and support for the civilian population, including women and children. Illegal arms transfers to conflict zones make the prospects for settlement more remote and aggravate humanitarian disasters. Recently this has become a pressing problem which requires special attention and specific joint action by the international community. In this context, breaches of the relevant provisions of Security Council resolutions, especially by some of the Council’s own members, are unacceptable. Azerbaijan supports convening an international conference on the illicit arms trade in all its aspects not later than 2001. We attach great importance to the timely convening of a fourth special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament, which could determine the future course of action in the field of disarmament, arms control and related international security matters. Azerbaijan stands by the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their Destruction, and welcomes its entry into force; we welcome also the outcome of the First Meeting of States Parties, held in Maputo. A national agency in this sphere has been created in Azerbaijan; it has begun its activities and has started to establish cooperation with its international counterparts. Azerbaijan’s formal accession to the Convention is directly dependent on the issue of the continuing occupation of its territory by Armenia. Azerbaijan has a highly positive view of the establishment of the International Criminal Court, and supports the work of the Preparatory Commission for the International Criminal Court on a number of provisions of its Statute. We regard as very important the work being done by the Commission to define the crime of aggression, and believe that the definition should be clear and viable, and that it should make provision for a norm establishing personal criminal responsibility. As a victim of aggression, Azerbaijan maintains that the Court should become an effective organ for the prosecution of those who commit crimes against humanity. My country is interested in taking an active part in combatting international terrorism, organized crime and illegal drug trafficking. The fight against these evils can be effective only if it is based on joint efforts by all countries, at both the regional and the global levels. We support the idea of convening in 2000 an anti-terrorist conference or a special session of the General Assembly on this issue, and the elaboration of a declaration of principles on the interaction of States in combatting terrorism. We hope that the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) will be able to mobilize additional resources to continue the joint project on drug-abuse control of the UNDP, the United Nations International Drug Control Programme and the Government of Azerbaijan. Another emerging topical area of activities is the provision of humanitarian relief assistance in emergency situations and periods of natural disasters, such as those that we have witnessed in recent months. In this connection, Azerbaijan calls for increased assistance to the victims of the tragic earthquake in brotherly Turkey, which claimed thousands of human lives. Despite the objective difficulties caused by the armed conflict and the transitional period, Azerbaijan believes that there is no alternative to its chosen course of reform aimed at building a democratic society with a market economy. As a State located at a key point between Europe and Asia, Azerbaijan is keenly interested in securing access to trans-European and trans-Asian communication networks; this would facilitate the development of industrial and trade links among participating countries, improved access to markets, 17 increased integration links, and closer cooperation among the economies of European and Asian countries. Unfortunately, the process of the profound transformation of the national economy is facing the serious consequences of the presence in the country of 1 million refugees and internally displaced persons. Coping with this emergency situation has been a primary concern of the Azerbaijan State for many years. Given the limited financial resources of our State, humanitarian assistance from the United Nations and other international organizations is a necessary element not only of the physical, but also of the moral survival of people who have lost their homes. We would like to express our most sincere gratitude to the United Nations, to the relevant United Nations agencies and to donor countries providing humanitarian assistance to Azerbaijan, and we call upon them not to reduce the volume of that assistance. Allow me to touch briefly upon the role that the United Nations and its agencies are playing in Azerbaijan. At the last session, I spoke about the constructive work being done with respect to the social and economic development of our country by the United Nations Development Programme. The UNDP is actively assisting the Government of Azerbaijan and bilateral and multilateral humanitarian organizations in addressing development issues. At the same time, my Government is deeply concerned at the fact that UNDP is entering the new millennium with an extremely decreased financial base. We all need a UNDP able to cope with the development problems that we are not in a position to solve alone. All participants in this process — donors and recipients of assistance — should provide sincere and solid support to the development activities of the United Nations. In this context, I would like to call upon all concerned to improve significantly the very difficult current financial situation of the Organization. With reference to relations between my country and the United Nations in general, I would like again to draw attention to the fact that Azerbaijan is still not represented in the United Nations Secretariat. The world is tired of crises and wars. Mankind deserves a peaceful, prosperous and happy new millennium. Our Organization is designed to play a leading role in overcoming obstacles to global peace and progress. It must be in a position to implement that noble mission. This is not an abstract desire, but a realistic task based on an assessment of the situation and an awareness of both needs and possibilities.  ﻿Allow me first, on behalf of my Government and myself, to congratulate Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Namibia, on his well-deserved election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. We wish him every success and assure him of my delegation's sincere cooperation in carrying out his work. I also wish to express a warm welcome to the new Members: the Republics of Kiribati and Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. A little more than a week ago, we had the opportunity to address this same body at the close the fifty-third session of the General Assembly. On that occasion, we expressed a general view of the Organization as a whole, as well as of some of the items or questions of greater relevance. That view cannot differ basically from the one I am now expressing as Minister for Foreign Affairs of Uruguay. In order to contribute to the debate of ideas, we did not silence then, nor will we now, certain views on the international community, on the changes it is experiencing and on the response capability of the United Nations to face the new situations or expectations of the Member States, especially the demands of regions or areas of the world experiencing diverse types of suffering. This suffering is at times basically economic in origin — call it underdevelopment or more simply, poverty and even extreme destitution — with all the attending consequences of marginalization and exclusion. In other cases, suffering stems from problems of civilization that tend to show alarming signs of deterioration. We must also emphasize that the turmoil and instability experienced by peoples are not in every case due to one and the same cause, whether of a material or economic nature or because of the lack of resources. We observe phenomena such as violence, dramatically present at the individual or collective level; terrorism of all kinds, blind and relentless; and, of course, the drug problem in its diverse stages, including the entrepreneurial business of its traffic and its perverse destabilizing effect, and drug consumption, which is destructive to the individual and is also related to family dissolution. There is also the absence of or weakness in educational standards that adequately prioritize the ethical dimension and human values as a great pedagogical goal. Perhaps none of us yet possesses the key to explain the real origin of these pathological phenomena, but what is very clear is that we cannot affect ignorance about them, as if they were foreign to us — Governments, States, peoples and organizations. Without prejudice to what was just said, we recognize first the central role the Organization must play in terms of international peacekeeping and security. On the other hand, it is necessary to give special attention to the dreadful consequences of nationalist excesses, to confront the exclusive and unfair fundamentalism of religions, to fight discrimination, whatever the basic claims or pretexts are, and to make tolerance a basic principle of relations among individuals and peoples. All are unavoidable duties of the United Nations. We must now establish and reaffirm our position as a Member State on those main items — some of which are planned, others under way and others still to come — regarding what is to be done. I refer first to the reform of the Organization and of the Charter, and in particular to the reform of the Security 22 Council. These are priorities that must continue at a pace imposed by the complexity of the matter, by the current state of international relations and, above all, by the expectation of world public opinion that moves momentarily from hope to anxiety. If it is true, as it is said, that time takes revenge on things done without prior consultation, it is just as true that medicine refined for a long time, as the Italian master Carnelutti reminds us, could arrive too late, when the patient is already dead. Reform requires a balance, a balance between sudden need and efficiency, between rigidity and flexibility and between unavoidable principles and the just appreciation of new realities. In favour of this balance, the General Assembly approved in November 1998 resolution 53/30, requiring at least a two-thirds majority for the approval of any reform relating to the membership of the Security Council. This dispelled concern about a reform being approved by non-representative majorities, opening up a new phase. This is contained in the report of the Open- ended Working Group on reform of the Security Council, established by consensus by the General Assembly by resolution 48/26, in the chapter entitled “Observations”. It will be your task, Mr. President, to give renewed momentum to this process on the basis of its progress and of other steps which, however modest and far from resolving the matter, advance in denoting certain basic points concerning which there is at least a common diagnosis. Although distant from final solutions, these points are always adjustable to the changes of the international community. The Government of Uruguay, my country — an active Member State of this Organization and of other world and regional organizations, both political and integration ones — has observed and continues to see well-constituted international institutions as the main guarantee for the observance a more just, foreseeable and fair international order. Therefore, when distinguishing the vital from the superficial and rhetorical speech from the true search for agreements, which can involve reciprocal concessions, the delegation of Uruguay will be in favour of change and against stagnation — but not just any change. It will favour change that restores to the United Nations a level of international recognition which, without sacrificing efficacy, would make the Member States and their regions feel that they are a tangible and active reality, that those subregions cannot be under-represented. There is no longer a place for an elitist international society that freezes obsolete historical periods in time, typical of a dialectic of confrontation measured in terms of the cold war. We must propose new formulas to avoid the effect of blockage that in many cases produces the conspicuous right to veto, granting the Security Council the procedural means to break it and even entrusting the General Assembly, under certain conditions, as proposed by my delegation, with new competencies so that it could be formally informed and its decision be required in situations which demand it, particularly when it concerns cases that could involve the legitimate use of force. The recent problem in Kosovo, which continues, could serve as a typical example of the aforementioned paralysing effect of the veto in the Security Council, without forgetting the disturbing consequences that effect would have in producing the marginalization of the United Nations system of peace and security, with the resulting questioning of the Organization itself and its real possibilities. This, naturally, requires the foresight of international law as the sole source of legitimacy, without ignoring the authentic and grave humanitarian situations that are imposed on us by the drama of the real facts at a time when they require a formal framework of timely, legitimate and efficient international action. We also attach special meaning to the improvement of the rules of procedure and the working methods of the Security Council, and we therefore trust that the proposals elaborated by the Open-ended Working Group will be adopted. An optimistic initiative of the Organization, encouraged by the Secretariat and the Member States, is undoubtedly the so-called millennium summit, which will take place at the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. Regarding its agenda, there will be a certain tendency in favour of approving a main topic of common interest, capable of stirring the attention and participation of heads of State and Government. As this is the most important point now under debate here, and since I wished to contribute when I was President of the General Assembly, I now say quite simply that in our view the main theme should be “The United Nations: its future viability”. This would generate, like the organs of a single body, related fundamental issues, perhaps formulated as important questions, such as: Towards a new system of international security? Does globalization demand new strategies of the world Organization? What more concrete strategies can there be 23 for the elimination of poverty and underdevelopment? How can we review the system for the protection of human rights, with a view to strengthening and improving them, particularly in the fields of the family, children, education and international cooperation? Naturally, we are aware that for the millennium summit to be successful and give hope for the next century, its agenda must reflect the expectations of Member States, which still show marked differences. My Government will continue to participate in the preparation of the summit with interest and in a responsible manner. The initiative for dialogue between civilizations — 2001 is to be the United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations — proposed by Iran and approved by consensus by the General Assembly at its fifty-third session — is the kind of topic that is at the heart of the United Nations role and should be studied in depth. We are convinced of the great importance of examining with extreme care the cultural diversity of Member States in order to know each other better, but at the same time understand the profound reasons why, despite our diversity, we are all Member States of a unique universal Organization: the United Nations. Support and respect for the San Francisco Charter is undoubtedly the starting point of any responsible dialogue. The Government of Uruguay will contribute its ideas and initiatives, joining in the efforts of all delegations to improve the international habitat through understanding and tolerance of peoples and ideas. Without prejudice to the important progress made towards the establishment of a normative system against the proliferation of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, Uruguay considers it essential to take new steps in this direction through the universalization of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), whose norms must be recognized and accepted by all States. The abusive use of light weapons or small arms — a subject of great debate — whose uncontrolled proliferation is reaching unacceptable levels, with devastating effects, in some cases worse than those caused by weapons of massive destruction, is a field in which the United Nations must play a fundamental role, as already reflected in the convening of an international conference to deal with the illicit traffic in small arms, a conference which Uruguay firmly supports. My country strongly believes in the need to replace the “culture of conflict” with a “culture of peace”, so that, as wisely stated by the Under-Secretary-General for Disarmament Affairs, Mr. Jayantha Dhanapala, “As the twentieth century witnessed the creation of nuclear weapons, the twenty-first century will see their destruction”. The entry into force last March of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their Destruction is an auspicious sign. A most significant milestone in the endless search for effective international ways to protect human rights was the signing of the Statute of the International Criminal Court in Rome in July 1998, during the same year in which the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights was celebrated. Uruguay is participating and will continue to participate seriously in the elaboration of complementary rules and procedural provisions to give the Court the basic elements to guarantee that it can work properly. When that process is completed the matter will come before our legislative bodies for consideration, in accordance with our Constitution. In conclusion, the topics that concern and will continue to concern the United Nations are multiple and diverse. At this very moment, for example, an instrument that has shown its effectiveness on various occasions is being employed again: the peacekeeping operation. I refer here to the one taking place in East Timor, with the prime goal of ensuring that the mandate of the Timorese people is implemented, and of preserving the lives and physical integrity of that people. Naturally, the environment, which is under attack, paradoxically as much by unregulated over-development as by poverty, will continue to be on the Organization's agenda, as well as the topic of population and development. But perhaps the essential need is to make the maximum effort to make the United Nations the point of reference for all States, the most powerful and the weakest — the former so that they yield to the international order and the latter so that they adjust to it, and find in the Organization their best shield. For all States it means access to a modernity that will develop them and make them part of the current technical innovation, which is supported by the information revolution through which all of us, in one way or another, will be introduced to the coming century. 24  Mr. President, allow me first to congratulate you on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. It gives me great pleasure to see the international community honour both you and your country through your election to this high office. I am confident that, given your vast experience and diplomatic skills, you will be able to steer the proceedings of the Assembly to a successful conclusion. I join other speakers in expressing our gratitude to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Didier Opertti, for the dedicated and effective manner in which he had guided the work of the General Assembly at the last session. I would also like to take this opportunity to commend the Secretary-General for his great dedication to the Organization and the many contributions he has made in the service of the international community. Malaysia would also like to join other Member States in welcoming, most warmly, the Republics of Kiribati and Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga as new Members of the United Nations. We look forward to working closely with them, particularly on issues of common interest to the Asia- Pacific region whence we come. The twentieth century is coming to an end. Before we enter the twenty-first it is useful to review the events of this century so that we may learn from our experience and hopefully we will know how to conduct the affairs of the twenty-first. This century saw the most destructive wars which destroyed billions of dollars of property and killed millions of people. It saw the most inhuman dictatorship in Germany where six million Jews were tortured and killed. It witnessed the first nuclear bombs that killed hundreds of thousands instantly and many more due to the after-effects. When the greatest war in human history ended, this body, the United Nations, was founded. We thought there would be peace as the great Powers worked together in the United Nations. But that was not the case. Immediately the victors divided themselves into two camps and initiated the cold war. However, it was the threat of a hot war that kept the war cold. Each side built huge arsenals of nuclear and non-nuclear weapons and glared at the other across deep chasms of misunderstanding as they threateningly fingered their nuclear triggers. For the colonies of European nations there was an up side. Fear of defections to the other side forced the two camps to relax their grips on their colonial territories. Countries gained independence, but their survival depended on their skills in playing the Western bloc against the Eastern bloc. Unfortunately this choice to defect to the other side did not last. Suddenly the Communist side collapsed. Lured by the apparent wealth of the Western free-market liberal democracies, the Eastern bloc jettisoned their authoritarian centrally planned economies and adopted the liberal democratic free market overnight. They thought that since they would now have a system similar to that of the Western bloc they would get the friendship, cooperation and help from the Western countries. They were naive enough to think that after 70 years of command economy and dictatorship they could overnight switch to the free market economy under the liberal democratic system. They soon found out that they knew nothing about how to make the system work and that they would get no help from the Western nations. Instead the Western nations saw in their incompetent floundering an opportunity to destroy the Eastern bloc, in particular the principal flag-bearer, forever. Even as the inability to manage a free market resulted in galloping inflation, destruction of State enterprises and massive unemployment, the hedge funds and the Western financial institutions moved in to devalue the currencies and make debt defaulters of this once powerful enemy. Despite knowing that these people could not manage a free market liberal democracy at all, they were nevertheless urged and threatened into continuing anyhow. There was no going back for the Eastern bloc countries. The destruction of the Eastern bloc was complete. It could never again militarily challenge the Western liberal democratic free marketeers. Now there would be only one choice for the world, and no defection would be possible for the countries of the world, big or small. With this the liberal democratic free market capitalists saw no more need to be gentle in spreading their systems or in profiting from them. No one would be allowed any other political or economic system except what was prescribed by the sole dominant bloc. The true ugliness of Western capitalism revealed itself, backed by the military might of capitalism's greatest proponent. 4 For the small countries, the demise of the Eastern bloc is a major disaster. Now they are exposed to pressures which they cannot resist, and very quickly they learned that the free marketeers intend to milk them dry. As for their politics, the instability of the liberal democratic system, which comes with a lack of understanding of its intricacies by the leaders as well as the people, meant that they would stay in a state of continuous turmoil, verging on anarchy. A few countries apparently managed to grow and prosper, but not for long. The currency manipulators and short-term investors of the rich soon impoverished these countries through devaluing their currencies and share prices. Impoverished and politically unstable, they were forced to borrow from the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Whether by design or through sheer lack of understanding, the economic regime imposed by the IMF further destroyed their economies. Soon their political freedom was also subverted, and many had to accept political direction by the IMF, or the loans would not be made available. For practical purposes, there was no more independence. So for the small independent countries of the world, the future looks bleak. They are now being told that the world should be borderless, that capital, goods and services should flow freely between countries. There should be no discriminatory taxes to protect local industries or products. Local banks, industries and products must compete on the same footing as imported products, and their banks and industries must compete with foreign banks and industries set up in their countries. No conditions must be attached to foreign banks and businesses which want to set up operations in their countries. They must have national status like those given to local businesses. This way, it is said, a level playing field will be created and competition will be fair. But can competition between giants and dwarfs be fair even if the playing field is level? The giant banks, corporations and industries from the rich countries, with huge local markets, can afford to lose money in a small foreign country when they make huge profits at home and elsewhere. The small businesses in the small countries will go bankrupt if they lose money repeatedly. In the end they will have to sell to the giant foreign companies or close down altogether. There will be no more big local companies; there will be only branches of large foreign companies who will indulge in transfer pricing and will repatriate most of their profit. The efficient may produce better and cheaper goods, but if a country does not export its own products to earn foreign exchange it will not be able to pay for imports. Cheap high-quality goods mean nothing if you have no money to pay for them. The markets of the poor countries may not be big, but impoverishing them would result in lost sales for the rich. That was what happened when the currency traders impoverished the countries they attacked. These countries could not buy the products of the rich; that is, the rich lost their markets, and world trade contracted. Free, unrestricted flow of goods and services across borders may be good for a while, but eventually it will destroy markets and result in contraction of world trade. The world would actually become poorer because of free trade. After the last war, the confrontation between East and West led to most of the colonies being liberated and becoming independent countries. Being independent meant the right to govern their countries themselves. Unaccustomed to wielding so much power, many of these Governments failed. They became hopelessly indebted to the banks of the rich countries. Their people suffered from incompetent and frequently oppressive rule. But the principle that prevailed in the third quarter of the twentieth century was that no one should interfere in the internal affairs of a nation. That, in fact, was the essence of independence. As long as the world was divided into Eastern and Western blocs, this principle was respected. But then a president decided that his country had a right and a duty to see that human rights were not abused anywhere in the world, irrespective of borders and the independence of nations. No one conferred this right on this crusading president. But small things like that were not going to stop him. The claim to victory of the West in the Gulf War was regarded as a moral endorsement of the right of the powerful to interfere in any country’s internal affairs. Soon, it was not just human rights. Systems of government and of the administration of justice and the financial and commercial systems came under scrutiny of the powerful countries. They insist that there must be only one way of administering a country, and that is the liberal democratic way. They insist that there can be only one economic system for the whole world, and that is the free market system. They insist that there must be openness in everything, transparency, separation of the 5 private from the public sectors, non-discrimination between ethnic groups, and no discrimination against foreigners in favour of nationals. All these and more sound very good. They have apparently worked for the developed countries of the West, making them rich and powerful, giving their people high standards of living. But will they work for everyone? They seem to have forgotten that they took centuries to make their system work. Their transition from feudal oppressive rule was based in copious blood. Both rich and poor were massacred as reforms were forced by a succession of uncaring tyrants, many elected by the people. Even today their system has not brought freedom and equity to large segments of their people, yet they insist that all the countries of the world, new or old, must immediately adopt the only system of government — their system, their liberal democratic system. The newly independent countries, which knew only the authoritarian system of government, cannot but fail. The former Communist countries in particular found themselves unable to cope with the destabilizing challenges directed at government authority in a liberal democracy. But the new countries are not going to be allowed time to learn and operate the system. They must change now, immediately. If their countries are destabilized, if their people suffer, if they regress economically, that is irrelevant. The important thing is that they must democratize and liberalize. If they fail to do so, they will be forced to do so through arm-twisting, trade sanctions and military action, if necessary. That these measures are more oppressive than those of the disapproved regimes and systems does not matter. The adoption of the approved system would destabilize the countries further and cause further suffering. All this does not matter, because the most important thing is the adoption of the system, not the benefit to be derived from it. It is the same with economic management. There must be liberalization and deregulation. The Government should not help the business sector, should not give it any protection. If businesses are attacked by outside forces, fairly or unfairly, and they lose, then let them die. They must be inefficient if they lose, and the world has no time or sympathy for inefficient losers. And so giant currency traders, their funds leveraged one hundred times or more, are pitted against central banks with limited reserves and without leveraging rights. The economies of whole countries and regions are destroyed, but the cries for protection by these countries are ignored. The fields are level, and the free movement of capital is a part of the secret free trade. Everyone must accept whatever happens because it is free trade. All the currency traders are doing is to discipline Governments so that they conform to the system and do away with their bad old system. In the financial crisis, Governments may not help businesses to recover. To do that means a bail-out of cronies. Let them die; let there be blood. Only then will Governments be considered serious in wanting to reform their systems, to adopt best practices, world standards and the only proper way to administer the economy. If the Government becomes bankrupt in trying to do this, that is all right. The important thing is to do things correctly, even if the country is destroyed, the people starve to death, anarchy reigns and the Government overthrown. There is a touching concern on the part of the West over human rights. But the definition of human rights seems limited to an individual’s right of dissent against the Government. Millions of people in a country will be made to suffer through sanctions and even bombings in order that a few dissenters may enjoy their rights of dissent. Apparently the rest of the population, hundreds of millions of them sometimes, have no rights. Their rights are not considered human rights. Thus depriving millions of the right to work as a result of currency trading is not considered as a violation of human rights. In the Western perception only individuals have rights; the masses do not. The concern over child labour and sweatshop factories is expressive of a sense of caring. Unfortunately the concern is shown only when the products of child labour and sweatshops compete successfully with the products of highly paid, high-living four-day-a-week workers in the developed countries. Child labour and sweatshops are not something which anyone would defend, but consider the extreme poverty of the people in some countries. They have no capital, no technology or expertise, no markets at home, no Harvard-trained managers. All they have is low-cost labour. For the workers, the tiny wages that they earn are far better than starvation and death. If we really care, then invest and pay high wages. The sweatshops will disappear and adults will earn enough to feed their children. Forcing them to stop child labour and sweatshops will only cause more suffering for their people. Telling them to stop 6 producing children is not a solution either. We know that the poor have a higher birth rate than the rich. To stop the population explosion which the West is worried about, enrich these people. Closing their sweatshops and stopping their children from working will only impoverish them further and cause them to have more children. With the end of the East-West confrontation, conflicts have increased instead of decreased. The Palestinian problem is still not resolved, but the sanctions against and the bombing of Iraq, the sanctions against Libya, the conflicts resulting from the break-up of the Soviet Union, and the stirring up of unrest and rebellions, or near- rebellions, by open support for insurrection go on. Before, it was the Communists who stirred up rebellion everywhere, including in Malaysia. Now we have the liberal democrats doing exactly the same in the same manner, complete with supply of arms. Whether it is a communist or a liberal democratic insurrection, the people suffer not one bit less. The United Nations seems helpless. Indeed, it is often bypassed by the big and the powerful. Now groupings of powerful nations or even one nation by itself seem to decide when to step in and when to step out. While they like to wield power, they are inordinately unwilling to pay the price. “Tele-wars” are conducted using high technology, such as the so-called pinpoint bombings, in order to avoid body bags coming home. This unwillingness to face the enemy often results in the unnecessary killing of innocent people and the destruction of the wrong targets. Unfortunately, no one should expect any change for as long as the United Nations belongs to the permanent five. The structure of the United Nations will continue to reflect the glorious victory of these nations 50 years ago. For the small countries, yearly speeches and various anniversary speeches will be allowed. Occasionally there will be membership in the Security Council. But despite the fact that at least three of the permanent five are vociferous advocates of democracy, there will be no democracy in the United Nations. The only saving grace is the agencies and their good work. Unfortunately, some in the United Nations have rather unusual principles. Normally a neutral or unbiased person would be chosen to study, report on and give an opinion or pass judgment on something. But the United Nations chose a person well-known for his virulent attacks against the Malaysian judiciary to report on that institution. The United Nations then conferred on him total immunity with respect to the laws of his country without reference to or consent by the country. This immunity apparently extends beyond his task of reporting his findings to the United Nations. He may publish his opinions and defame people and the subject of his study anywhere and everywhere. Is there no limit to a United Nations Commissioner’s or Rapporteur’s immunity? We are told that Governments must not interfere with the judiciary. Yet in this case the Government is expected to instruct the judiciary not to act against this United Nations Commissioner for breaking the laws of the country. I am not blaming the Secretary-General for this. It is the peculiar system and principles which guide the choice of the United Nations Commissioner or Rapporteur that I find unacceptable. Nor do I think it proper to hint at dire consequences for the Malaysian nation if this man is not freed from court action for open contempt and defamation. There is something not right here which the United Nations needs to look into. But small countries lack a public forum to air their views freely. The Western media distorts everything that they say or do. Again we are expected to give immunity to western journalists; they may break our laws, but no legal action may be taken against them. I would like to point out that in Malaysia not even the King and the hereditary Sultans are above the law. This then is the scenario in the last quarter of the twentieth century. We will carry this baggage into the twenty-first century and the new millennium. For the poor and the weak, for the aspiring tigers and dragons of Asia, the twenty-first century does not look very promising. Everything will continue to be cooked in the West. Just as communism and socialism came from the West, liberal democracy, globalization, a borderless world, deregulation, unfettered free flows of capital and their flights to quality, the disciplining of Governments by the market and by currency traders, and a host of other ideas all come from the West. And what is from the West is universal. Other values and cultures are superfluous and unnecessary. If they remain, there will be a clash of civilizations. To avoid this clash there should be only one civilization in the world. Everything should be standardized according to Western best practices. They may change only if the West changes. Thus the globalized world will be totally uniform. Variety is equal to intransigence and must therefore be eliminated. Malaysia has just gone through a very traumatic experience. In a matter of weeks, 42 years of hard work to develop the country was destroyed, in particular the 7 affirmative action to reduce the enmity between races in Malaysia. We have devised our own formula for recovery. With the blessings of Allah, we have turned around and are on the road to recovery. But we are being pressured to abandon our currency control. We do not understand why. It has done us a lot of good. It has done no harm to anybody except a few thousand rich currency manipulators. Foreigners doing real business in our country have profited from the so-called controls. But we are still being urged to conform to an international financial system which has enabled the unscrupulous to destroy the wealth of many nations. No serious attempt is being made to change the international financial system. So far there is only talk about intentions. But the threat of financial, economic and political destabilization remains. Malaysia wishes only to be allowed to manage things in its own way, in the interests of its own people. We will not harm others. We are not turning our backs on the world. We have always cooperated with the rest of the world, in particular with the United Nations. We will continue to do our bit for world peace. Just as we accept criticism, warranted and unwarranted, we hope others will also tolerate our criticism of them. Free speech would be meaningless if criticism could be directed only at the poor and the weak and never at the rich and powerful. In criticizing others, we are only exercising our right to freedom of expression. We are not too enchanted by the prospects we foresee for the next century. But I can assure the Assembly that we will be a responsible nation, friendly towards all who are friendly towards us and harbouring no bad intentions towards anyone. We are pleased that an important figure in Namibia's attainment of independence has the responsibility of conducting this session of the General Assembly. I also wish to express my appreciation to the Foreign Minister of Uruguay, Mr. Didier Opertti, for his skill in presiding over the previous session of the General Assembly. After 10 years as President of Argentina, and with my constitutional mandate about to end, I should like to share with the Assembly the transformations that Argentina has experienced during this time, in a world which has also been transformed. In the past 10 years we have experienced a change of Copernican dimensions. It started with the recovery of democracy. Since that time we have built a stable political system based on the popular will and respect for the rule of law. We have made respect for human rights a sacred value. We are at peace with all our neighbours, with which we have now undertaken a robust integration process. We have put an end to proliferation policies and have actively committed ourselves to peacekeeping operations. We have developed an open and free economy, worked to combat poverty and inequality of opportunity and fought discrimination in all its forms. In short, we have recovered and embraced the high values of our culture, which are the essence of the Charter of the United Nations and which we hope to bring with us into the twenty-first century. At the regional level, which is our natural sphere of interest, we have solved all outstanding border and demarcation issues with the Republic of Chile and thus opened the way for fruitful integration. We have established consultation and coordination mechanisms with Brazil and Chile on security and defence issues. We are convinced that security depends much more on friendship and cooperation with our neighbours than on what we spend on weapons. As one of the guarantors of the Rio de Janeiro Protocol, we contributed to the peace agreement between Peru and Ecuador. We are working tirelessly for the consolidation of democracy and development in our region. In the field of disarmament and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, we have taken the following steps. On 28 November 1990 we signed the Foz do Iguaçú Joint Declaration, which consolidated the policy of nuclear transparency with Brazil, and since then we have developed a common peaceful and non- proliferation nuclear policy. Argentina acceded to the Treaty of Tlatelolco, in 1994; the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, in 1995; and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, in 1998. We are also members of the Nuclear Suppliers Group, and in 1993 Argentina joined the Missile Technology Control Regime. In the field of space activities, the National Commission for Space Activities has worked with the United States National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) on the SAC-B satellite mission, the placement in orbit and operation of the SAC-A satellite technology mission and the forthcoming launch of the SAC- C satellite mission, Argentina's first Earth observation satellite. We have also started some ambitious projects in this field with Brazil, as well as with Canada, France, Germany and the United Kingdom. We have ratified the Chemical Weapons Convention, and we are working on a monitoring mechanism for the Biological Weapons Convention. In this context, Argentina joined the Australian Group on 11 December 1992. Argentina's self-restraint in the development of nuclear weapons is recognized as an example by the international community. On 14 September this year Argentina ratified the Ottawa Convention on the prohibition of anti-personnel landmines. At the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR) summit in Ushuaia, Argentina, on 24 July 1998, MERCOSUR, Bolivia and Chile were declared a zone of peace and a zone free of weapons of mass destruction. A commitment was also made to declare the area a zone free of anti-personnel landmines. We believe that all States must renounce nuclear weapons and give unequivocal guarantees that their nuclear capability and most advanced technology are exclusively for peaceful purposes. Allow me once more to refer to the pending sovereignty dispute concerning the Malvinas Islands. One of the first measures we adopted upon taking office was to re-establish diplomatic relations with the United Kingdom, in February 1990. A new stage was thereby begun in which the ties between the two countries were taken to their highest level in history. This was reaffirmed by my recent visit, as President, to the United Kingdom and that of His Royal Highness Prince Charles to Argentina. Since then, while reaffirming our sovereignty rights and motivated by a spirit of reconciliation, we have worked harmoniously with the United Kingdom on various matters relating to the South Atlantic, such as the rebuilding of a climate of mutual trust in the area, the preservation of live marine resources, the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, the resumption of flights between the continent and the Malvinas Islands, and the access of persons carrying Argentine identity documents to the Malvinas Islands. Argentina is a country that is proud of its cultural diversity. Our Constitution establishes as a national goal the recovery of the Malvinas Islands while guaranteeing the strictest respect for the way of life of their inhabitants. I am convinced that the conditions exist for Argentina and the United Kingdom to begin without further delay a dialogue towards a definitive solution of the sovereignty dispute, thus fulfilling the numerous resolutions adopted by the General Assembly and the Special Political and Decolonization Committee. Argentina is the sixth-largest troop contributor to the Organization. At this time, we are involved in 10 of the 17 current operations, including those in Kosovo and East Timor. We have also incorporated personnel from other Latin American countries into our troops. In Argentina, the defence and promotion of human rights is a State policy. That is why we have actively participated in the establishment of the International Criminal Court, as a way to put an end to the culture of impunity. The numerous humanitarian missions in which “White Helmets” have been deployed in South America, Central America, the Middle East, Africa and the Caucasus are a reflection of the success of this initiative, which I put forward in 1993. Argentina agrees with the Secretary-General that the “White Helmets” can provide assistance, in close partnership with the Blue Helmets, in conflict situations. Argentina supports a world economy of open markets. However, we see the re-emergence of hidden forms of protectionism. This is why we call on all States, in particular to the most developed ones, to take part in the “millennium round”, with the goal of attaining an open, multilateral system that excludes no sector of economic activity. As evidence of our concern regarding environmental issues, in November 1998 Argentina hosted the fourth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which adopted the Buenos Aires Plan of Action. During the fifth ministerial meeting of the Zone of Peace and Cooperation of the South Atlantic, which was held in Buenos Aires in October 1998, a Plan of Action was adopted for the first time in order to carry out the objectives of the Zone, which include the protection of the environment and of living resources. 5 The international community must urgently prepare contingency plans to face the year 2000 problem in such a way that essential community services are not affected. Since 1 January 1999, Argentina has been an elected member of the Security Council. I would like briefly to share some thoughts with the Assembly. The responsibility of the Security Council in the maintenance of peace cannot be irreplaceable, and its authority must be strengthened. The Council must work in cooperation with other bodies of the United Nations system and with regional organizations in order to carry out its tasks effectively. We have a responsibility towards the men and women who make up the Blue Helmets, as well as towards those who perform humanitarian work in conflict situations. It is our obligation to protect them. We call upon countries to ratify the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel. Concerning the reform of the Security Council, Argentina supports the creation of a system of non- discriminatory, open rotation. It would be unfair and unrealistic, at the beginning of a new millennium, to multiply the privileges and discriminatory practices that came about only as a result of war in 1945. Therefore, no new categories of membership should be introduced in regions where those categories do not exist, especially if tradition and history do not warrant it. Finally, I am convinced that the United Nations is called upon to play an even more relevant role in the twenty-first century. Argentina, which is now to be among the 15 main countries of the Organization, will participate with the same conviction as always in the realization of the noble objectives of the Charter. Once again, I thank you, Sir, and all the Members of the United Nations. After 10 years and six months, I bid you farewell for the last time.    The past year has been a difficult one for the United Nations. Its principles have been challenged. Its relevance has been questioned. Still, at the end of the millennium, we have proved ourselves unable to prevent war between Ethiopia and Eritrea and unable to prevent genocide in Rwanda or ethnic cleansing in Kosovo. Still, we see flagrant disrespect for international law, humanitarian law and human rights. Children are used as soldiers in Sierra Leone, women are denied all rights in Afghanistan, fundamentalist forces have demonstrating students arrested and possibly sentenced to death in Iran. Other tragic examples can be found in almost all parts of the world. We can change all that, if only there is political will. It is up to us, the Member States, to ensure that the United Nations and the Security Council are able to uphold international law and their responsibility for international peace and security. I would like to highlight four key areas that we, the United Nations and its Member States, need to address to make the United Nations truly relevant: the questions of intervention; early action and prevention; nuclear disarmament; and human rights. To succeed, the United Nations system also needs to be reformed, and I will come back to that. When it comes to intervention to secure peace, regional organizations and arrangements, as well as so- called coalitions of the willing, can have important roles, together with the United Nations, as we have just seen in East Timor. But it is for the Security Council to provide the legal foundation — the mandate — for such action, in particular when force has to be used. Without such a legal foundation, we run the risk of anarchy in international relations, and in fact we undermine the prospects for peace and security; and that long-term perspective must never be lost. Our responsibility for international peace and security implies that necessary action by the Security Council should not be hindered by a veto. If the Security Council in an urgent situation is paralysed by a veto or a threat of veto, this may undermine the authority and the relevance of the United Nations itself. It also presents the international community with a difficult dilemma. When human life is threatened on a massive scale, it is not possible to remain passive. Humanitarian intervention has to be assessed on a case-by-case basis, in view of the values at stake and whether all other means have been exhausted. The effects on international law and international security at large have to be considered as well. As the Secretary-General said yesterday, we must ensure that the Security Council is able to rise to the challenge. It must negotiate in earnest, with creativity and without the threat of veto, to define threats to peace and security at an early stage, and to deal with a crisis before an emergency situation arises. Council action does not necessarily mean the use of force. The use of force almost inevitably causes suffering for the innocent. It should, therefore, only be the last resort. There are many other tools available. The United Nations Charter offers several options. The most obvious alternative to the use of force is conflict prevention and early action. Member States, in particular the permanent members of the Security Council, must share information on conflict situations and early warning signals with the Secretariat. The Secretary- General should be invited to react to such reports and to propose appropriate and timely action to the Security Council. The United Nations offices in the field and early fact-finding missions dispatched to areas of potential conflict could help the Secretary-General formulate such proposals. Academic institutions and non-governmental organizations could also be helpful in this regard. The Swedish Government has adopted a programme of action to facilitate and contribute to the prevention of armed conflict. It is our hope that this action plan will stimulate a debate on how to change the focus from crisis management to early preventive action in order to promote a culture of prevention. When considering peacekeeping operations, the Security Council should not be hampered by short-term budgetary considerations. This sends a very negative message and runs counter to the need for early and 32 preventive action. All countries must pay their assessed contributions in full, on time and without conditions. Naturally, that also goes for the host country. The United Nations must be given the necessary resources to be able to act swiftly upon decisions by the Security Council. The danger of nuclear devastation has not faded. On the contrary, we are faced with new threats. Last year the positive trend set by Argentina, Brazil and South Africa having joined the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) was reversed by India and Pakistan, which both tested nuclear weapons. Their actions have endangered international peace and security, as well as stability in the region, and are a serious setback to our hopes for a world without nuclear weapons. Sweden will follow up its call of last year for a new agenda for complete nuclear disarmament. India and Pakistan have taken us further away from that goal. We call upon them, and all other States which have not yet done so, to give up their nuclear ambitions. All countries should become parties to the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) and the NPT. The five nuclear-weapon States also have a responsibility to complete nuclear disarmament. Deployment of national missile defence systems in the future would create uncertainties and have a negative impact on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. We encourage the United States and Russia to re-establish a new momentum in the stalled START negotiations, and especially we call upon Russia to ratify the Start II agreement without further delay. Reductions should be extended to non-strategic nuclear weapons. Furthermore, we urge the three nuclear-weapon States which have not yet done so to ratify the CTBT. All this should be done in an effort aimed at the elimination of all kinds of weapons of mass destruction, which still pose a threat to human beings all over the world. Any regime violating human rights paves the way for crisis and armed conflict. The defence of human rights is a legitimate concern for the Security Council and the international community. It is our duty to react when the rights of individuals are violated, wherever it happens. Still, disrespect for democracy and human rights is obvious in many parts of the world. The events in East Timor show how the will of the people can be totally ignored by armed thugs. In Kosovo, innocent civilians are attacked for belonging to a certain ethnic group. Still, poverty and social injustice deprive people of health and education. Still, women and girls are facing discrimination. The brutalizing and killing of women is carried out with impunity in many countries. In wars, rape is used as a means of terror. Often women are deprived of their right to earn their own living or participate in the economic and political life of their countries. I urge all countries to adhere to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, without reservation. Still, 10 years after the adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the hopes of children for the future are overshadowed by daily hardship and fear. Too often their talents and skills are buried in poverty or diseases which are curable but not attended to. Too often they are denied proper education, or suffer from discriminatory school systems. The recruitment of child soldiers is a shameful practice that causes individual suffering and will harm the security and development of societies for many years to come. I appeal to all Governments to assist in the conclusion of the two optional protocols to the Convention on the Rights of the Child in order to prohibit sexual abuse of children and the use of children below the age of 18 in armed conflict. The use of the death penalty has no place in a civilized society. Sweden welcomes moves taken in a number of countries to put an end to this repugnant practice. The abolition of the death penalty would enhance human dignity worldwide. Still, the ugly face of racism appears in all parts of the world. Manifestations of racism are an affront to the fundamental principle of non-discrimination and a threat to the fragile fabric of peaceful relations between people in an increasingly global community. The preparations for the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance provide an important opportunity to identify concrete and action-oriented ways to combat racism. Another important manifestation will be the Stockholm International Forum on the Holocaust, to be held in January 2000. The early entry into force of the Statute of the International Criminal Court would send a clear signal that the international community is determined to end the culture of impunity for the most heinous crimes under international law. Sweden is committed to early ratification, and we urge all countries to be similarly committed. 33 As I said at the outset, in order to have an efficient and relevant United Nations, not paralysed by the veto and able to cope with the challenges of conflict prevention, nuclear disarmament and the protection of human rights, we also need reforms. In particular, we need to strengthen the United Nations capacity for conflict prevention and to address root causes of conflict. This is a moral imperative as well as a humanitarian, political and economic necessity. The Security Council should be enlarged to better reflect the realities of today’s international relations. A geographical balance is important in this regard so that the Council can become truly representative of the international community. The use of the veto, or even the threat of its use, hampers the work of the Council. We support the proposal that as a first step the right of veto should be limited to decisions on enforcement action under Chapter VII of the Charter. We would also like to see the five permanent members agreeing on a moratorium on the use of the veto. The Security Council should be more transparent and open. This would contribute to the acceptance and legitimacy of its decisions. The Council should be able to hear the views of all relevant parties to a conflict without the implication of political recognition. The involvement of humanitarian organizations in the Council’s deliberations would enhance the quality of its decisions. The humanitarian consequences of Security Council action should always be taken into consideration. This is particularly important when sanctions are imposed. Sweden welcomes the Secretary-General’s efforts to reform the Secretariat and modernize its management culture, and we appreciate the improved efficiency that has followed. Reform is not only about cost-cutting. The aim must be to revitalize the Organization and the multilateral system to cope with the many challenges before us. Long-term security is closely linked to sustainable development and the eradication of poverty. We need to strengthen not only the United Nations capacity to provide humanitarian assistance but also its long-term social and economic development efforts. A basic problem is the lack of funds. The donor community needs to ensure sufficient and predictable financial resources to allow the reforms to produce long- term results. Sweden is one of only four countries that meet the United Nations aid target of 0.7 per cent of gross national product. Development requires a true partnership between countries, ensuring sufficient external resources, sound use of internal resources and good governance. The reform process has to continue, and we look forward to the Millennium Assembly and the summit next year as an opportunity to accelerate the work. We all have a tendency to blame the United Nations for our own failures and shortcomings. In fact, when the United Nations fails, it is because we fail. If the United Nations loses its relevance, we lose. There is no real alternative to global cooperation to cope with increasingly global problems, and for this, we need the United Nations — but a strengthened and reformed United Nations.  I wish first of all to express our satisfaction at your election, which has accorded you the privilege of conducting the debate at this fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. I wish also to express our conviction that your recognized diplomatic and political experience will lead to creative results. I should also like to pay a tribute to the Foreign Minister of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay, Mr. Didier Opertti, whose diligence at the helm of the Assembly last session not only bore witness to his professional abilities, but also confirmed the commitment of that American nation to the principles on which the United Nations is based. Exactly three years ago, on first taking the floor here, I began by announcing that we were very close to achieving peace in my country. Today I return to this Assembly four months before my term of office expires to summarize all that has transpired during the past three years of changes, many of which Guatemalans could not imagine when we signed the peace accords on 29 December 1996. The first and most fundamental change that has taken place has been in the hearts and minds of Guatemalans, as can be seen in the way that the former guerrillas have been brought back in from the cold and are no longer outlaws, and in the return of the refugees. After over three decades of an internal armed conflict marked by extreme cruelty, a conflict which was, among other things, an expression of profound and deep- rooted political and ideological intolerance, all the indications were that reintegrating the former guerrillas was going to be a complicated and dangerous process. Nevertheless, against all expectations, from the moment the ceasefire took hold until the former guerrillas took part in the electoral process, reintegration has taken place in an atmosphere not only of security but also of openness and tolerance on the part of all sectors of society. I should also like to highlight here the attitude of the Guatemalan army, which involved itself fully in the negotiating process and made fundamental contributions to it and then, once the peace accords had been signed, not only complied fully with their provisions but was also positive in its attitude towards them. By acting in accordance with the spirit of the accords and not just the letter, it encouraged reconciliation and peaceful coexistence with its former adversaries. At the local level, both the refugees and the former guerrillas have returned to their towns and villages and today, in many of those places, development committees have been set up composed of returnees, former guerrillas, former members of the civil patrols and former members of the armed forces, all of them working together to improve the lot of their communities by striking at the roots of their problems. 9 Also, at the public policy level, peace has meant social investment on a scale and of a quality unprecedented in our country’s history. That investment has been effected in accordance with the social ethic and the development logic of the peace accords, and have also met the specific targets set in those accords. Thus we have gone farther than anyone has before. We have gone as far as the most remote villages and hamlets and brought them education, health services, roads, electricity and water, though we know that much remains to be done. What we have achieved so far has already shown that if we can consolidate the opening to progress which our country has made, we can quickly remedy the effects of so very many years of backwardness. We are also investing in the infrastructure and facilities needed for production in order to improve the country’s competitive position in the globalized world of today. I would say that these two fundamental aspects I have mentioned, the reintegration of the former guerrilla forces into society and social investment, contain the fundamental elements on which a new Guatemala will be based. Inherent to the processes through which the former guerrillas have been reintegrated and the refugees have been repatriated are reconciliation, tolerance, respect for diversity and legal or otherwise agreed solutions to conflicts. The main thrust of public investment embodies a social ethic based on the common good and a tangible effort to improve access to opportunities for the least regarded sectors. Thus both processes form the foundations for maintaining and strengthening peaceful coexistence between Guatemalans, which has been the most significant qualitative result of the peace accords of December 1996: on the one hand, a peaceful settlement to the conflicts and, on the other, increasing efforts to redress the most serious injustices and opportunities for development for all. Nevertheless, our internal endeavours have taken place in an adverse world economic context. As in almost every other Latin American country, the economy in Guatemala is experiencing a slowdown and a financial squeeze. Together with the effects of the crises in various regions and the persistent financial speculation that is constantly chipping away at productive, job-creating investment, the prices of our main export products have plummeted while the cost of our imports, particularly oil, have gone up substantially. The negative impact of this situation particularly affected the strata of our society who are least capable of fending for themselves. This trend which is mainly caused by external factors, has been compounded by the direct and indirect effects of hurricane Mitch, which struck our sister countries of Honduras and Nicaragua particularly hard but also brought serious destruction to our own country and seriously affected trade within the Central American region, on which we are highly dependent. As a result, the State’s efforts to boost development cannot be as successful as they might otherwise be, particularly when compared with our people’s expectations. We have created investment incentives, beginning with political stability, and going on to education and training, creation of infrastructure and provision of basic services. What has been accomplished in the way of public works and public services has generated tens of thousands of jobs. The work done on the roads and highways and on the electrical grid and telecommunications has significantly expanded the main bases of our economy. As a result of all these and other endeavours, the effects in our country of the negative economic developments taking place abroad have been less severe than in our sister countries that have stopped growing or have experienced negative economic growth. We have created a foundation that will have a positive impact on the standard of living of the people, and especially of the neediest. These beneficial results will continue if we stay the course. For even if we must continue to swim against the current of the world economy, which is temporarily impoverishing us, we have available internal resources and can count on ongoing processes that are likely to produce structural change, provided that the efforts made over the past four years are consolidated, sustained and continued. The Peace Agreements are, for Guatemala, the strategic elements of a profound, comprehensive and all- embracing effort to change our country. They represent the basic guidelines for the fundamental transformations necessary to build a different Guatemala, one that is profoundly democratic and committed to the integral and sustainable development of its people. The peace agenda is equivalent to the democratization of the country, which is conceived as a functional and participatory democracy encompassing the political and cultural domains. A functioning democracy 10 involves reform of the State, and its participatory character is what enables it to become a social democracy, which in turn strengthens its functionality. In this respect, I cannot fail to mention the substantial increase in opportunities for popular participation that has resulted from the establishment, as mandated in the peace agreements, of over 15 multi-sectoral commissions, as well as the measures taken to extend and complement structures for the elaboration and adoption of public policy. Also noteworthy are the efforts that have been made to decentralize the State and strengthen local institutions with a view to a rapprochement between the Government and the people and to giving them a greater say in public affairs. Another fundamental process consists in the efforts being made to build a multicultural, plurilingual and multi- ethnic nation. This involves extremely complex work to roll back centuries of exclusion, discrimination and racism, and it presupposes profound cultural changes towards the tolerance and respect necessary for our cultural diversity to blossom and make the many contributions it can to our national development without putting the unity of the country at risk. It has also been essential to redefine national security and defence. This has involved re-examining principles and rethinking the public security, national defence and intelligence apparatuses. We have made progress in the establishment of a new national civil police. This is a professional body that is trained to focus on the protection and defence of the individual and collective rights of citizens and is sensitive to, and respectful of, ethnic, cultural and linguistic diversities. We have also further reduced our military forces, cutting back the budget and dismantling bases and other important elements of the military infrastructure, as provided for in the Peace Agreements, with the full concurrence and participation of the army. The progress made in various areas is a source of legitimate pride for all Guatemalans as well as for the States that, as the Group of Friends, have supported us, and in particular for the Organization, whose role as our partner has enabled us to maintain optimism and hope in the difficult task of building peace and development. Guatemala has been able to benefit from the essence of what the Organization does best: make available its good offices and serve as a facilitator in the various phases of the management of a conflict, act as an impartial verifying agency, provide unconditional cooperation and act as a trusted partner in assisting Member States to resolve problems. I wish to stress the paramount importance of the role that has been played in Guatemala by the United Nations Verification Mission in Guatemala, with a view to ensuring progress in the implementation of the Peace Agreements. The United Nations presence in our country and the exercise of its advisory and verification functions with impartiality and wisdom have contributed significantly to the implementation of the various phases of the commitments in the Peace Agreements. Our Government attaches similar importance to other initiatives that the United Nations has undertaken in support of Guatemala’s society. Our country is a testing ground for a new assistance framework that aims, among other things, to impart greater consistency to the work of the various agencies of the Organization. Our own evaluation of the assistance we have received is highly positive. The number of activities the Organization is carrying out in Guatemala is quite high and increasing. It is therefore only fair to emphasize that the various agencies have been able to mobilize a considerable amount of additional resources from external sources. Another positive contribution of the cooperation in question is the tangible impact it has had, through both its direct effects and its catalytic function in respect of public expenditure and the policies carried out by the Government. I therefore wish to convey our deep appreciation to the States Members of the United Nations, which have at all times supported the efforts of the various sectors of Guatemalan society to restore peace. Their political backing has been fundamental to the success of those efforts. I also extend my gratitude to the Secretariat, and in particular to Mr. Kofi Annan, as well as to the executive organs of the various agencies of the United Nations system, which have interpreted the mandates of the Organization and have demonstrated efficiency in their execution. Finally, we fully appreciate the value of the work of other multilateral bodies such as the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the Organization of American States, and in particular the Inter-American Development Bank, which has played a dual role as direct source of financial assistance and organizer of the Consultative Group for Guatemala. The success achieved by intergovernmental bodies in connection with the Guatemalan peace process is our basic reason for reiterating our conviction that cooperation between nations is indispensable in order to achieve peace and development for our peoples. That is why Guatemala remains firmly committed to the promotion of various kinds of multicultural and multi-ethnic undertakings, not only in the framework of the United Nations but also with respect to various endeavours at the regional and hemispheric levels. One of the boldest and most challenging initiatives is the one being undertaken by Central America to achieve the economic and political integration of the region. Like the other States that compose the Central American Integration System, Guatemala is convinced that this strategic association strengthens the region in its relations with an increasingly competitive world, and it reiterates its commitment to continue promoting actions to enhance the effectiveness of Central American integration. For those same reasons, Guatemala wishes to express its unreserved support for the strengthening of our Organization. We are firmly convinced that the United Nations must be the principal forum responsible for maintaining world peace. That is why we welcome the Security Council’s prompt response to the crisis in East Timor. We believe that United Nations involvement in such situations confirms its functions as the sole organ competent to decide on the action to be taken in cases where the principle of non-intervention needs to be interpreted with due regard to the existence of violations of international humanitarian law. In order that such functions be performed adequately, we need an Organization that is strong and flexible, with mechanisms and procedures that are capable of responding to the challenges of new world realities. We must accordingly reflect more deeply on the ideal design structure of an Organization that must compensate for the regional imbalances of power that have arisen in the post- cold-war world. This also means that we should pursue the reform of the Secretariat and of the intergovernmental bodies of the United Nations, including the Security Council. We believe also that the United Nations should continue to deal with the greatest unfinished task of the twentieth century: wiping out world poverty. Together with the multilateral financial agencies, our Organization should play an indispensable role in ensuring that the benefits of globalization are distributed on a democratic basis, and that if we must all be exposed to the risks, we should all be entitled to enjoy the benefits. Guatemala appreciates the Organization’s contributions to promoting an international climate enabling disputes between and within States to be settled peacefully. As a State Member of the United Nations, Guatemala has always resolved all its international disputes in a peaceful manner and in accordance with international law. We wish to reiterate to the Assembly our concern about the situation of the 22 million inhabitants of the Republic of China in Taiwan whose aspirations for representation in international organizations have not been satisfied. We welcome the new impetus that has been seen in the Middle East peace negotiations and we trust that they will lead to a comprehensive resolution of all the outstanding issues there. After so many years of conflict, the countries of the region, including a future Palestinian State, deserve to live in peace, security, harmony and prosperity. This is the last statement that I will make to the General Assembly as the representative of my country, and I should like to conclude by reiterating my people’s gratitude for the solidarity shown to us in our efforts towards peace and development. The support which the peoples and Governments represented here have bestowed upon us, together with the strenuous work of the United Nations and its agencies, make us feel honoured, indebted and motivated. The fruit that our peace process has manifestly borne in such a short time provides clear evidence of the validity and relevance of the system and of the fundamental, indispensable and inestimable importance of the efforts of the Guatemalan people within the country and of the unquestionable effectiveness of international friendship in the form of respectful, timely and effective cooperation in building a more democratic country and a more equitable and united world. 12  Please accept my congratulations, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its current session. We are indeed glad to have a distinguished statesman from Africa presiding over important deliberations on global security and development. I am sure that your personal attributes, as well as your diplomatic skills, will ensure the success that is expected from the Assembly. The delegation of Poland will do its best to assist you in your important functions. My compliments go also to the President of the General Assembly at its fifty-third session, Mr. Didier Opertti of Uruguay, for the outstanding commitment he demonstrated during his presidency. It is with satisfaction that we welcome in our midst the new Members of the United Nations: the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. It was with the utmost attention that we listened to the Secretary-General's introduction of his report on the work of the Organization. His interesting and highly stimulating ideas will guide us throughout the whole fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. May I assure the Secretary-General of our deep respect and support for all his endeavours. In my statement today, I wish to focus on the three issues which, in my view, are at the centre of discussions within this Organization. These are, first, human freedoms, and in particular the question of rethinking the principle of national sovereignty and non-interference; secondly, current challenges to the United Nations Charter-based system of international security; and thirdly, coping with contradictions of globalization through better international cooperation. We have recently been witnessing new, painful manifestations of ethnic hatred in Kosovo. Armed clashes have again shaken the north Caucasus. East Timor is another example of intolerance and the folly of violence. We pay homage to the victims of this violence. But the people in all the crisis-stricken areas expect more from us than just words of sympathy. We should pose ourselves some questions: could these new outbursts of conflict have been prevented? Is there a political will to head them off in the future? If the answer is positive, then what should be done to translate our political commitment into action in a concerted and effective way? How should the system of international relations be improved to give people the hope that they will not be left defenceless in the face of genocide and persecution? The United Nations Charter-based system of international security was born of the lessons of a devastating world war which started with blatant violations of sovereignty of States. To address this reality, the system of international law and institutions was rightly geared to give those nations a sense of security and to prevent inter-State conflict. Most of today's conflicts, however, are of an intra-State nature. They stem from human rights abuses, social tensions or the collapse of State structures. Can we tackle the new challenges with existing concepts and notions only? We have come to understand that absolute sovereignty and total non-interference are no longer tenable. There is not, and there cannot be, a sovereign right to ethnic cleansing and genocide. We have learned that what should not be repeated is the unacceptable inaction which occurred in the past, such as in the Rwandan crisis. Rwanda demonstrates what Kosovo might have become had we not intervened in 1999. Kosovo demonstrates what Rwanda might have been had we intervened in 1994. The burden of responsibility is enormous, the lesson clear. 5 At the same time, we should follow the principle that our responsibility is the same for all ethnic groups. In Kosovo the ethnic cleansing of Albanians by Serbs has been stopped and reversed, but now we witness that the presence of Serbs and Roma in Kosovo is under threat. In this decade the international community has through its actions — recently in Kosovo and in East Timor — recognized the universal political and moral imperative to act in order to stop gross and systematic violations of human rights. This recognition, setting aside the distinction between inter- and intra-State conflicts, reflects the spirit of the Charter of the United Nations. Indeed, the central figure of the system of the United Nations must be the human being — his or her right to a peaceful life, to personal freedom, to a decent existence and dignity. When human life and freedoms are assailed and individual rights brutally violated, then we must not remain indifferent and unconcerned: we cannot stand idle. The imperative to act raises the question of the right to act. We have recognized that the walls of sovereignty cannot be used to conceal and legitimize the abuse of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Sovereignty cannot mean impunity for genocide and human rights abuses. Let us all remember that it remains one of the fundamental objectives of the United Nations “to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small”. The primacy of the human person and human rights, however, has to be adequately reflected in the application of international law. This is not an easy task, first, because there are still too many cases where behind hypocritical lip-service to human rights there exist practices of curbing and limiting those rights for the sake of preserving political power; secondly, because the legal framework of intervention, which should ensure the possibility of quick and effective action, is too often distorted by selective and subjective interpretations. On the one hand, the banner of humanitarian intervention should not be used as a pretext for imposing political control and domination from the outside. We want to make the walls of sovereignty surmountable, but not for all purposes. On the other hand, the principle of humanitarian intervention has to be fairly and consistently applied to avoid double standards. The development of international law should thus uphold the basic truth that a sustainable, lasting and secure order in international relations can be built only on the freedom of the human being. The principle of solidarity in international relations should grow in importance, since it also provides the key to the effectiveness of the mission of the United Nations. Acting for universal observance of human rights while preserving the necessary content of the notion of sovereignty raises the question of the best strategies for humanitarian intervention. We have but to agree that intervention by force is an instrument of last resort. What is preferable is an early and cooperative engagement to correct the practices that give rise to concern. There is no doubt that armed intervention is a sign of the failure of cooperative methods. We support wholeheartedly the efforts to foster a new culture of prevention. The basis for this philosophy should be the universal recognition that international commitments undertaken by States in the field of human rights are matters of direct and legitimate concern to other States as well, before their abuse degenerates into a threat to international peace and security. Human rights do not belong exclusively to the internal affairs of States. The present session of the General Assembly will lead us into the year 2000. Let this symbolic date inspire us to reflect upon the mission of the United Nations, to make the millennium summit a truly meaningful event. On the eve of the next millennium, the world still needs the United Nations, while the United Nations needs a new vision. Faced with new and more demanding challenges, we are of the opinion that the solutions to them require joint and concerted actions by the whole community of States. The United Nations needs a reinforced commitment by its Member States to the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter. Let us try to find new strength for the Organization by reaching back to the intellectual and normative origins of the United Nations. Contrary to some assertions, we believe that the Charter is not outdated in its basic message. What it needs is a new, fresh and visionary reading in the context of new international realities and 6 challenges. For example, with respect to Chapter VIII of the Charter, we note that many of today's conflicts are local in nature. It is for this reason that the relationship between the United Nations and regional security needs to be further explored. Those actors who are closer to events and have a larger stake in regional stability might be the ones who would be willing to react more promptly and with greater determination. This is why Poland supports increased responsibility of regional organizations for conflict prevention and crisis management. In regions where such organizations exist and have the necessary potential, they should be involved more actively in solving substantial problems. One possible example of how to use them constructively is the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Thus, the key to effective use of the principle of subsidiarity is closer political and operational cooperation between the Security Council and regional organizations. A debate on United Nations reform has been going on for a number of years. The fiftieth anniversary of the Organization stimulated the discussion, which resulted in a universal understanding of the need for changes. Many of those changes have already been implemented, thanks to the tireless efforts of the Secretary-General. This process should, however, be deepened and accelerated. The Security Council offers a case in point. The Security Council, upon which primary responsibility has been conferred for the maintenance of international peace and security, occasionally finds it difficult to act in situations of inter-State or local armed conflicts, even when those situations have a dangerous spillover potential. Whether for reasons of broad ideological motivations or narrow national interests, members can block vitally needed decisions, and adversely affect the security of certain regions. How are we to eliminate situations in which the Security Council is prevented from taking up its responsibilities? How are we to increase the effectiveness of the Security Council, combining effectiveness with enhanced representativeness? Reform of the Security Council is long overdue: let us undertake a decisive effort to make it a reality. Let us think anew of how to strengthen the authority of the Council and preclude the possibility that its decisions will be ignored or misimplemented by individual States. (spoke in French) A few weeks ago, two young Africans froze to death on their flight between Conakry and Brussels. They had stowed away in the landing gear of the aircraft. They left behind a moving appeal addressed to the people and politicians in charge in Europe that has already been quoted in this Hall. In view of the special nature of that appeal, I should once again like to quote from it. They wrote: “Help us. ... We are suffering enormously in Africa. ... We have war, disease and we lack food. ... We wish to be educated and we ask you to help us so that we can study and be, in Africa, just the same as you are”. There is no more eloquent appeal to people's hearts and consciences than those words of despair written by children. We must find the right solutions to the social and economic failures, to the threats and to the lack of prospects that people and societies face and consider the urgent need to change the present framework of international cooperation. Frustration and the lack of social action cause conflict and a lack of stability. We must think about how to integrate our social and economic programmes with the general imperative of the new culture of prevention. Poland is prepared to participate in these efforts, the aim of which is to build a world based on these principles. However, our resources are limited. Our country is only just emerging from a period of major economic crisis caused by the communist system and its centralized planning, with its waste and bad management. Even so, we are now creating a complex and effective system of cooperation for development that will demonstrate our commitment in poverty eradication activities. At the same time, we are prepared to share with other countries the development experience we ourselves have acquired during the process of reform of our political and economic systems over the last 10 years of transformation. Globalization must become a process with a human face. Certain basic principles must be better integrated into the development machinery: specifically, solidarity; combating marginalization; responsibility; and equal opportunity. Combating marginalization: that of the least developed countries, which do not yet enjoy the benefits 7 of globalization. Responsibility: that of Governments in implementing policies of good governance, in respecting human rights and in being aware that the well-being of all people everywhere is just as important as the well-being of their own nations. Equal opportunity: for the poorest, and those who are still sidelined by society. And solidarity: in facing our common challenges — terrorism, organized crime, environmental threats, natural disasters, AIDS — together. Unfortunately, we still have much left to do before we attain these goals. The 1999 United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Human Development Report provides fresh, shocking evidence of social breakdown and threats to human security. The challenges I have just mentioned are just part of a more universal question: how can we respond to the new realities of the world? Global policies have not been fully adapted to cover the increasing number of complicated and contradictory phenomena that cannot be tackled with traditional diplomatic instruments. The process of designing policies is still basically the job of individual nations, whereas the challenges we are facing require creative cooperation at the global level. It is for this reason that, Governments must further integrate the idea of international cooperation into their national policies, while avoiding the temptation of authoritarianism. This, however, highlights the urgent need to revise and strengthen our institutional arrangements regarding the design of global policy, particularly with regard to the most complex problems of trade, finance and the environment. International cooperation must be more open to other actors in civil society by reflecting the rich network of relationships. While several countries are re-evaluating their national policies, democratizing their societies, privatizing their national economies and decentralizing economic and political power, at the international level we are, broadly speaking, still confining ourselves to conventional intergovernmental actions. The United Nations must promote active international cooperation whereby governments and the various sectors of civil society act together towards common goals. In this connection, we welcome the “Partners for Development” initiative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD). By breaking from normal practice, this will allow more active participation by the public and private sectors and by representatives of government and the business and intellectual worlds in resolving various complex development problems. (spoke in English) As someone who has witnessed the atrocities but also the tremendous progress that the twentieth century has brought us, I look towards the coming century with much optimism. This optimism is justified first and foremost by the liberation of nations and peoples, the wave of democratization, the market reforms all over the world and the universal understanding of human rights ideals. Fewer people live in constant fear of arbitrary arrest, torture or worse. I also look towards the coming century with hope because I see the predominant will to consolidate those recent achievements.   Mr. President, I wish to express my warm congratulations to you upon your election to the presidency of this fifty-fourth session of the United Nations General Assembly. Your unanimous election to the presidency is not only an attestation to the confidence we in Africa have in your leadership ability, but is also an affirmation of the faith the international community has in you to steer this organ successfully into the twenty- first century. You take up the helm of this body at a critical juncture, when we are here taking stock of where we stand on the eve of the new millennium. Let me avail myself of this opportunity to express our sincere gratitude to your predecessor, His Excellency Minister Didier Opertti of Uruguay, who presided over the affairs of this Assembly in a diligent and exemplary manner. We thank him for his conscientious efforts and sterling contribution. May I also express our great appreciation of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, who, having recognized the great opportunities and challenges ahead of us, has worked tirelessly to help us map a noble vision for the future of our Organization. 6 We are also witnessing another historic moment for our Organization, as we admit into our midst three new members: Nauru, Kiribati and Tonga. We welcome them to our brotherhood of nations and wish them all the best as they chart their own destinies and make their contribution within our community of nations. On our African continent, the holding of free and fair elections in Nigeria has ushered in a democratic dispensation worthy of our attention. This transformation serves as a monument erected to inform the international community that Africa has said 'No' to the institutionalization of the route map from barracks to the State House, which hitherto the military has traversed with impunity. Further, the return to peace and democracy in Liberia and Sierra Leone bears ample testimony to Africa’s renewed quest for democracy, peace and stability. It is, therefore, our fervent hope that the implementation of these peace agreements will lead to the restoration of normality in the region. In the same spirit, the Southern African Development Community (SADC) alliance intervened in the Democratic Republic of the Congo to uphold one of the most fundamental tenets of the United Nations Charter: respect for the principle of sovereignty and territorial integrity. Aggression, under whatever pretext, should be condemned and opposed by the United Nations. We are, therefore, encouraged by the eventual participation of the rebels in the peace process. We wish to register our most sincere gratitude to His Excellency President Chiluba of Zambia for his untiring efforts that succeeded in bringing the rebels on board this peace process. It must be emphasized, though, that the success or failure of a peacekeeping mission to the Democratic Republic of the Congo will be determined by the availability of both human and material resources. We are, however, worried that an inadequately funded Democratic Republic of the Congo peacekeeping operation would be a clear manifestation of Africa’s increasing marginalization in the new world order. We trust, therefore, that the United Nations will now render the requisite support to sustain this achievement. We find this an opportune moment to call upon the international community not only to put its full weight behind African peace initiatives, but also to assess and buttress the institutional and operational capacity of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) in the prevention, management and resolution of conflicts in Africa. In this vein, we hail the European Union’s declaration that its future engagement with the belligerents involved in the Democratic Republic of the Congo conflict would depend on the latter’s fulfilment of their obligations as spelt out in the Lusaka ceasefire agreement. Sadly, the gains that we registered in the Democratic Republic of the Congo peace process are being negated by the renewed bloodbath in Angola, where, for the second time this decade, UNITA has resumed war, disregarding the 1994 Lusaka Peace Agreement. We therefore call upon the international community to put in place effective mechanisms that tighten the embargo against UNITA, particularly in the light of the recently concluded mission of Ambassador Robert Fowler, Chairman of the Security Council sanctions committee on UNITA. Zimbabwe hails the acceptance by Eritrea and Ethiopia of the OAU Framework Agreement to end the war in the Horn of Africa. Zimbabwe, as a member of the high-level committee that coordinated the effort to end the war between the two African States, calls upon the United Nations to undergird this successful regional peace initiative with the necessary technical and other resources to make the process irreversible and permanent. Since its inception the United Nations has had on its agenda a concern for economic and social development. The follow-up to the implementation of the goals of the World Summit for Social Development is currently being assessed, and it has become evident that a potentially explosive social situation confronts the world today. The soaring levels of unemployment, the deteriorating standards of living, the abject poverty in most developing countries, especially on our continent, Africa, are cause for serious concern. We note that Africa’s fortunes have continued to worsen despite the continent’s best efforts. Growth slowed in the majority of African countries and, at 2.6 per cent in 1998, average gross domestic product for all of Africa fell far short of the eight per cent annual growth rate envisioned by the World Bank as the level capable of significantly reducing poverty levels on the continent. Adverse factors that contribute to this decline include slower growth of the world economy, declining commodity prices, the contagious effects of the Asian financial crisis, the El Niño weather pattern, civil strife and political turmoil in several spots. At a time when greater challenges and opportunities are emerging within the context of globalization, it is 7 crucial that Africa’s nagging vulnerabilities are highlighted and addressed. Total African export revenues fell by nearly $14 billion in 1998, to just $112 billion, an 11 per cent drop from the 1997 level, mainly due to price declines. That negative trend has continued in 1999. We are concerned that at a time when prospects for aid effectiveness in Africa are improving significantly, official development assistance to Africa has fallen to its lowest level. Between 1993 and 1997, total aid receipts in Africa fell by nearly 13 per cent, from $21 billion to $18.7 billion. At this rate, official development assistance flows have fallen far short of the $30 billion a year that economists estimate is needed to reduce poverty in Africa. The net rate of return on investment in African countries remains higher than in other developing countries. It was estimated at 20 to 30 per cent during 1990 to 1994, on average, as opposed to 16 to 18 per cent for all developing countries. Yet in contrast to this great potential, Africa has not been a significant beneficiary of the dramatic increase in global foreign direct investment flows. Africa’s debt is essentially non-payable and certainly unsustainable under any sensible growth-oriented macroeconomic scenario. There is an urgent need to release more resources from debt servicing to financing development and creating conditions that encourage inflows of private foreign investment. Although the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt (HIPC) Initiative constitutes an important mechanism for debt relief, its eligibility criteria are rather restrictive. While the need for better debt management by Africa in the future is acknowledged, any credible solution to Africa’s debt problem must indeed entail substantial debt cancellation. We in Africa are therefore fully persuaded that it is time the international community deliberates on the substance and prospects for new aid modalities which emphasize a holistic and comprehensive approach. There is need for us to share views on how best to foster a new donor-beneficiary relationship in which multi-donor programmes focus on supporting an African-driven agenda. In our own region of southern Africa, we are at an advanced stage of setting up a trade protocol meant to maximize our earnings from trade. With a majority of our members having ratified this protocol, only a couple more remain before it is operational. We are also keenly aware of the critical role of telecommunications as an effective vehicle for successful international trade. Accordingly, my country only recently agreed to be a subregional host for the AFRITEL, an African regional telecommunications centre. We trust that international investors will see this as positive preparedness on the part of our continent not only to attract them and their investments, but indeed to concretely ensure that they also prosper in their endeavours on our continent. The United Nations decade for the progressive development and codification of international law is coming to a close on an important note, with the establishment of the International Criminal Court. However, the Court can be successful only if it is universally accepted. We must, therefore, lend our unwavering support to this process so that we can complete this important milestone in the history of our Organization. As we look into the new millennium, let us aspire to have an international order that espouses the twin objectives of universal peace and security on the one hand, and an improved quality of life for all the earth’s inhabitants on the other. It must be an order characterized by justice and respect for international law. Such international law must surely have the effect of restraining both regional and international belligerent countries. We should join enthusiastically in the promotion of the achievements of the decade for the development of international law. Zimbabwe is greatly disturbed at the cataclysmic turn of events in East Timor following the self- determination referendum there. The crisis chronicled in the report of the Security Council Mission to Jakarta and Dili was most disquieting. Zimbabwe therefore welcomes the deployment of the multinational force to restore peace and security in East Timor and to facilitate the delivery of humanitarian assistance. We sincerely hope that the Security Council will soon authorize the deployment of a United Nations peacekeeping force whose financial and other resource requirements are vouched for by the entire membership of this Organization. It would be remiss of me not to mention how inequitable it is that the membership of the Security Council should remain unreflective of the vastly altered international circumstances. The need for the reform of the Security Council is no longer just a lofty ideal we strive to achieve, but a prerequisite for the very existence of this Organization. The Security Council, as a principal organ of the United Nations, is entrusted to act on behalf 8 of the entire membership, which to date has risen to 188 countries. The stark realities of the situation in the world must be reflected not only in the sheer increase in numbers, but also in consideration of the democratic principle of equitable geographical representation and participation. It is grossly unjust that we, the developing countries, should remain totally unrepresented in the permanent membership of a body entrusted with such power and authority. The powers and privileges that the current members of the Security Council enjoy should be extended to all new members if the Council is to be effective. And so, as we hold the last session of the General Assembly in the current millennium, it behooves us to make one giant leap into the future, not only in terms of wise and bold decisions, but also in terms of the commitment to implement them and see them bear fruit for us and for posterity.  The tragedy in East Timor shows us again that when war and violence erupt the world community turns to the United Nations for the resolution of conflicts and the preservation of peace. We welcome the Security Council’s action to endorse the multinational force that is now moving in to bring security and aid to the people of East Timor. Norway will contribute with personnel and financing. We look to the United Nations for hope and solutions, and for the protection of human dignity and shared values in a world of injustice and conflict. That is why the United Nations is indispensable. And that is why we, the Member States, must make use of the United Nations for peace and development, whether it be in East Timor, in Kosovo or in the Congo. In preparing for the Millennium Assembly, let us together address global challenges in a new spirit, with a new sense of purpose. I would like to congratulate you, Sir, upon your election to the presidency of the General Assembly. Norway looks forward to working with you. I also warmly welcome the three new Members of the United Nations, the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. At the end of this century, globalization presents us with political and moral dilemmas. There has been remarkable progress in technological innovation and in economic and democratic development. But at the same time, while the rich are getting richer, the poor are getting poorer. Poverty and pollution, violent conflict and violations of human rights continue to haunt far too many people around the world. Combatting poverty, preventing conflicts, promoting human rights: these are the main challenges at the top of our common global agenda for the next century. We must ensure that globalization benefits all, not just the few, and we must protect the environment. To achieve this, we need to strengthen the multilateral system. We must support the United Nations and its work for global peace, security and sustainable development. We must put the United Nations first. Together we possess the knowledge and the resources needed to eradicate poverty. But still, 1.3 billion people live in extreme poverty. This is unacceptable, morally and politically. It is an injustice and an obstacle to economic and democratic progress. For all Member States, in the North and in the South alike, changing this situation must be our priority. And the United Nations must be the primary instrument. There is no alternative. Let us build a global partnership aimed at eradicating poverty. Let us start by mobilizing the political will and the financial resources needed to meet the target of cutting global poverty in half by the year 2015. It is a matter of political will; it can be done now. National Governments have the primary responsibility for sustainable development and for meeting social needs. They must promote and protect the rule of law, human rights and democracy. They must fight corruption and pursue sound economic policies. There is no doubt that development assistance is most effective in countries where government is based on the principles of good governance. The international community must also do more to create economic opportunities for the developing world. The following steps would have a major impact. First, we need to increase the transfer of official development assistance from the North to the South. Norway has been well above the United Nations target for two decades. We intend to increase our development assistance further, up to 1 per cent of gross domestic product. Secondly, we need partnerships that enable national Governments to lead the way and determine their own priorities. The private sector and business interests must be brought into the development process, as the Secretary-General has underlined. Thirdly, development assistance and debt relief must go hand in hand. Creditor nations must now give the poorest members of the world community a new start. Norway’s national debt-relief strategy is particularly designed for this purpose. We also support the momentum created by the Group of Seven States to give highly indebted poor countries substantial debt relief. Fourthly, the entry of developing countries into the global market must be facilitated, not obstructed. This must be focused on during the new round of multilateral trade negotiations in the World Trade Organization. In recent years, we have seen an increase in civil wars, often with an additional element of foreign involvement. The root causes can often be linked to ethnic tension, as well as to inequity in the distribution of 17 resources - economic, social, natural and political. During the 1990s, the activities of the United Nations have been more extensive than ever before in the conduct of preventive diplomacy, in the deployment of peacekeeping forces and in the provision of humanitarian aid to the victims of war. But at the same time, there are critics who claim that the United Nations has failed. Of course, many things could have been done better, but we must not forget the many successes and we must not forget that it is we, the Member States, who are responsible for giving the United Nations the mandates to act and the money and the means to succeed. Let us not make the United Nations a scapegoat for our own shortcomings. Instead, we must make sure that the Security Council can fulfil its primary function in international peace and security. We must act in accordance with the United Nations Charter and international law. We must put the United Nations first. This means enhancing the capacity of the United Nations for conflict prevention, crisis management and long-term development. All Members must meet their financial obligations to our world Organization and its peace operations. Creating common security is not cost- free. In particular, it is the duty of the most powerful members of the United Nations to set an example for others. The United Nations must develop further its cooperation with regional organizations. As Chairman- in-Office of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), Norway has been working to build closer relations with the United Nations system. We need constructive interaction between all international, governmental and non-governmental organizations involved in peacekeeping and post-conflict work in Europe and elsewhere. Kosovo is a tragic example of the complex conflicts that we have seen in recent years. Building lasting peace there will require the concerted efforts of all actors involved: the United Nations, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the OSCE, the European Union and others. Our immediate concern is to secure a safe environment for all the people of Kosovo through a credible international presence. We must promote integration between all the peoples and nations of south-eastern Europe. We must include everyone and isolate no one. This summer, at the Sarajevo Summit, we pledged to make the Stability Pact a key element of our efforts to ensure that democracy, peace and prosperity become firmly rooted all over south- eastern Europe. At the same time, our efforts to build peace in the Balkans must not be made at the expense of the poorest people elsewhere in the world. They should not pay the bill. The United Nations and its agencies play a central role in providing emergency aid to victims of war everywhere. Humanitarian assistance should be complemented by efforts to promote reconciliation, democratic development and respect for human rights. Compliance with international instruments is needed to protect civilians in armed conflicts. We welcome the Secretary-General’s report and the Security Council resolution adopted last week. At the forthcoming Red Cross Conference in Geneva, we must generate the momentum needed to secure the protection aspects of international humanitarian law. The early entry into force of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court will be a vital contribution to the rule of law. We must focus on human security, taking individuals and their communities as our point of departure. Combating poverty is crucial to human security. The proliferation of anti-personnel mines and small arms and the use of child soldiers pose a threat to human security. They inflict deep wounds on society and individuals. Recently, in Russia, we have seen how terrorism strikes innocent people. We strongly condemn such terrorist acts, for which there can be no excuse. International efforts to deal with these serious issues must be intensified. We must vigorously pursue nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. The principles and objectives set out under the process established by the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) must be honoured. The early entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and ratification of the Treaty on Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms (START II) are crucial priorities. So are START III negotiations to lower nuclear arsenals, and so is a cut-off treaty. These are all crucial elements in a global agenda for sustainable human development. 18 When natural disasters strike, the poor are the most vulnerable. The recent tragedies in Turkey and Greece affected us deeply. Increasingly, man’s pressure on the environment seems to be a contributing factor to natural disasters, which often cause extensive destruction in developing countries. We must step up our efforts to assist developing nations so that they become less vulnerable. In this regard, Norway attaches great importance to the special session of the General Assembly, to be convened next week, on the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. Conflict prevention, humanitarian aid and development efforts must go hand in hand. We must deal with the underlying causes of poverty and need, not just the symptoms. Political and economic reform should run in parallel with humanitarian aid. We must close the gap between relief and long-term development. This calls for closer cooperation and the involvement of the whole United Nations family as well as the Bretton Woods institutions. The Secretary-General’s reports on Africa (A/52/871- S/1998/318 and A/54/133-E/1999/79) clearly demonstrate that poverty, underdevelopment and violent conflicts are closely linked: we cannot address one without addressing the others. The Secretary-General has pointed to the need for a comprehensive approach and better coordination of conflict prevention and post-conflict peace-building in the United Nations system. The Secretariat has already embarked on the process of implementation and follow-up. Norway fully supports the Secretary-General’s initiative and is ready to provide practical and financial support for this important endeavour. We will set aside $3 million for the Secretariat to use for this purpose. The situation in Africa gives rise to concern. Armed conflicts are hampering development in many countries. AIDS is also taking a heavy toll. There are positive signs too: we are witnessing the growth of democracy, transfers to civilian rule, free elections and economic and political reforms in many African countries. But poverty remains a major challenge. Norway remains firmly committed to peace and development in Africa. We will work with our African partners for conflict management and development cooperation. We will work with the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity, subregional bodies such as the Southern African Development Community, the Economic Community of West African States, and others, to achieve our common aims. The Middle East peace process is at a critical juncture. The vision that the parties had in 1993, when the Oslo Accords were signed, is still valid. The fact that Israel and the Palestinians have now embarked on final status talks is a very positive sign. Strong support for the peace process must remain a high priority for the international community. We must work together with the parties to achieve a just, lasting and comprehensive peace that will guarantee prosperity and security for all involved. The world needs an effective multilateral machinery to cope with common challenges. For the next century, we must, first, build a stronger United Nations in the fields of global security and economic and social progress; secondly, use the United Nations as the primary instrument for peace and development, democracy and human rights; and thirdly, tackle poverty and conflict prevention as the main challenges at the top of our agenda. It is up to us, the Member States, to make this possible. Together, we must make it happen.  On behalf of the people and the Government of Papua New Guinea, I wish to join previous speakers in congratulating His Excellency Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly. His unanimous election shows the esteem in which the international community holds him personally, and his country, Namibia. The Papua New Guinea delegation is confident that he will guide the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly to a successful conclusion. My congratulations go also to the other Assembly officers. May I also take this opportunity to express my delegation's sincere appreciation to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Didier Opertti, for his outstanding stewardship in facilitating the work of the fifty-third session. We would also like to place on record our appreciation to the Secretary-General for his diplomatic skill and for the leadership he has provided on major issues of international concern. I must also congratulate the Secretariat staff for the tremendous work they put into the discharge of their functions and duties, at times under very difficult and dangerous circumstances. Like others who have spoken before me, I too congratulate on behalf of the people and the Government 17 of Papua New Guinea the three new Member States, all from the South Pacific Forum region — the Republic of Nauru, the Republic of Kiribati and the Kingdom of Tonga — and welcome them into the United Nations family. I would also like to pay tribute to all Member States which made their admission possible. This is an Organization in which smallness in terms of population or size should not be a handicap. I am confident that the work of the United Nations will only be enhanced through the sharing of the particular experiences and knowledge that these three new Members will bring. It has only been a little over two months since the new Government, of which I am a part, was elected to office in my country. But this time has been hectic and very challenging. The Government has been confronted with problems inherited from previous Governments over the last 23 years of our independence and especially over the last two years. These have been compounded by other problems associated with the recent downturn in the global economy, with the economic crisis in the Asia-Pacific region and with natural disasters, all of which we have little control over. This experience, together with my country's location and its close relations with other countries in the region, defines my Government's foreign policy focus on partnerships in the Asia-Pacific region. This point has been brought home by a series of natural disasters which have affected Papua New Guinea over the last 10 years. There have been 30 of them in that decade. The droughts, floods, bush fires, cyclones, frosts, volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, tsunamis and landslides have shown that peoples and States throughout the world have to be partners in dealing with the causes and consequences of such disasters, and must manifest preparedness to take responsive and remedial measures. There must be a global partnership in developing appropriate mechanisms for disaster prevention and disaster reduction. When my Government came into office on 14 July this year, it had five main priorities. These are: restoring integrity to the institutions of the State; stabilizing the exchange rate of our currency, the kina, and containing inflation and reestablishing constructive dialogue with Papua New Guinea's development partners; restoring stability to the national budget, focusing on fewer and more important priority areas and advancing the privatization of some of our public institutions for a fair run; creating better conditions for the private sector by removing barriers to investment growth; and continuing the Bougainville peace process. My Government has addressed these challenges, including a comprehensive programme of structural adjustment through the mini-budget recently adopted by Parliament. In doing so, we are working hard to make sure that a strong and efficient private sector can contribute to public welfare and national development. By the same token we are also reviewing the size and effectiveness of the public sector to make it more responsive to the desires and aspirations of our people. The results, together with other measures we have adopted, will, we hope, stabilize the economy, thereby stimulating economic growth. The signs are very encouraging. I know that as a small open economy, my country's development is directly influenced by global factors, including world market prices for our products. Currently, my country is suffering from the economic crisis experienced by our major trading partners in Asia, and we are forced to undertake significant reform programmes to protect our economy and our people. In this regard, we turn to international financial institutions to help us restructure our economy. The World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the Asian Development Bank have been very positive in their responses to our policies, especially my Government's recent mini-budget last month. I held bilateral discussions with friends such as Australia, China, Japan and New Zealand two weeks ago during the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council ministerial meeting in Auckland, New Zealand. They indicated their support for the current structural adjustment programmes my Government has introduced. For Papua New Guinea to realize and sustain its current reform programmes, it has to secure external financial support. I see my Government's foreign policy of partnership in the Asia-Pacific region as a building block for the global partnership on which the future of my people depends. There is really no other alternative. On peacemaking and peacekeeping, the Bougainville conflict involves substantial commitments of personnel and funds by the Government of Papua New Guinea, by neighbouring countries and by the United Nations. My Government acknowledges and is deeply grateful for the constructive role played by Australia, Fiji, New Zealand, the Solomon Islands and Vanuatu as well as by the United Nations Development Programme and a number of non-governmental organizations including churches and 18 the Red Cross. We are also grateful that the Security Council found it possible to answer our request to send an observer mission to ensure that the parties involved in the peace process continue to honour the Lincoln Agreement. We note the reference to Bougainville in the Secretary- General's report on the work of the Organization. As peace continues to be consolidated on the ground, so the role and size of the neutral regional Peace Monitoring Group can be expected to change. Re- establishment of police, courts and correctional services will provide important supports and benchmarks for progress towards lasting peace on the island. In the event that the Bougainville parties are unable to resolve the constitutional arrangements before the end of this year, we hope that at the appropriate time the Security Council will agree to an extension of the mandate of the United Nations mission on Bougainville. I pay tribute to all United Nations Member States, and especially to those current and immediate past members of the Security Council, for responding positively and for their continued support for a peaceful resolution of our Bougainville crisis. Consistent with our commitment to peaceful dialogue between nations, Papua New Guinea condemns those who employ terrorism against innocent people and who finance, recruit, train and deploy terrorists and mercenaries. In 1975, when I addressed this forum from this podium at the time of our admission to the United Nations, I committed Papua New Guinea to the principles and purposes of the United Nations Charter. Now, some 24 years later, we recognize that like any other institution, the United Nations has limitations. We believe that after 50 years the time is right to review the Charter, taking into account today's realities. The Charter should be a document that puts the people of the world on centre stage, and at the same time it must recognize that the Governments are here to represent them as well as to serve them. In this respect, there cannot be any distinction as to colour, creed, race, sex or religious persuasion. My delegation welcomes the Secretary-General's current and ongoing reform programme. As a member of the Non-Aligned Movement, my delegation reaffirms the position that the Security Council should be reformed and expanded in both categories, taking into account today's realities. My delegation believes the numbers in the Council should reflect the increased United Nations membership, and therefore I concur with the majority of Member States who have advocated a Security Council of the new millennium consisting of 26 or more members. Papua New Guinea believes that all permanent members of the Security Council, including new permanent members, should have similar privileges and rights. The use of the veto power should be done away with, or curtailed and applied only to Chapter VII issues. The working methods of the Council should be more transparent. The reforms of the Organization would not be complete without the reconfiguration of the regional groupings within the United Nations structure. My Government believes that an effective Security Council should be composed of a representative from each subregion of the world. In this regard, due consideration should be given to current realities, especially to the geographical location of each Member State. For example, in the reformulation Australia and New Zealand should be considered as part of the South Pacific subregion of the Asian group. The reforms in the Security Council should therefore take account of this change. Changing the world, through decolonization, from a system of relations between imperial powers and the colonized to a partnership between sovereign States is among the United Nations greatest achievements. The process, however, will not be complete until the remaining 17 non-self-governing territories have exercised their inalienable right to self-determination and/or achieved self-government and, where appropriate, independence. Neither small size nor remoteness should be allowed to qualify or limit this inalienable right. On the regional front, Papua New Guinea is pleased to note the progress made in implementing the Matignon Accords, culminating in the recent agreement contained in the Noumea Accord, which confirms the way forward for the exercise of the right of self-determination by the people of New Caledonia, especially the indigenous Kanak people. The Noumea Accord will, we believe, provide a sound basis for the future fulfilment of all legitimate political aspirations. We urge all parties to honour both its letter and spirit. We acknowledge that the United Nations Decade for Decolonization will come to an end next year. We urge the administering Powers and the members of the Special 19 Committee to work together to develop a new programme of action for the year 2000 and beyond. On East Timor, my Government welcomed the agreement between the Republic of Indonesia, the Portuguese Republic and the United Nations on 5 May 1999, which enabled the United Nations to organize the ballot on 30 August. The overwhelming 98.6 per cent turnout at the ballot and the 78.2 per cent vote in favour of independence are very clear. My Government calls on all parties to respect the results of the United Nations-supervised ballot and the wishes of the East Timorese people. Although since the ballot there have been deaths, massive destruction of property and the undemocratic and forced displacement of people by the militias and certain members of the Indonesian military who did not accept the results, we are pleased that this has changed after the recent announcement by the President of the Republic of Indonesia, B. J. Habibie, reaffirmed by Foreign Minister Alatas yesterday. Democracy is all about the will of the majority. It is not about unanimity, nor is it about enforced application of rules by a minority. We are also pleased that the Government of Indonesia was able to recognise its obligations — not only as a party to the 5 May Agreement, but also as a Member of the United Nations — to permit the deployment of a Security Council-sanctioned multinational peacekeeping force in East Timor. At the same time, however, it is our fervent hope that in the interests of the long-term security and stability of the region, the leaders and the people of East Timor will also make peace with their neighbours. It is important for them to acknowledge the fact that it was the Government of Indonesia that made it possible for the people to exercise their right to self-determination. We are firmly committed to the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, including issues of climate change and the consequent effects of rising sea levels. We strongly urge its full implementation. My Government will continue to follow and support the future work on these issues, including the special session of the General Assembly on small island developing States to be held on 27 and 28 September 1999. The world's leading scientists have concluded that the rise in global temperatures poses serious threats, including sea-level rise and an increase in natural catastrophes such as the El Niño and La Niña phenomena. The greatest challenge for the United Nations is to strengthen the global community's capacity to respond promptly and effectively to natural disasters. The devastation caused by the recent earthquakes in Taiwan and Turkey and by the floods in the United States and in the Bahamas resulting from hurricane Floyd makes it all the more imperative for the international community to take positive action. On the question of the management of the oceans and seas, Papua New Guinea joins others in calling on Member States at this session of the General Assembly to work together on a resolution to establish a consultative process to improve coordination and management of the programmes for the protection of the oceans and seas. At this Assembly session we should formalize this process. We are concerned that at the recent meeting of the Council of the International Seabed Authority in Jamaica, a number of States appeared to be more preoccupied with reducing our potential to prosper from prospecting, exploring and exploiting the deep seabed. The debate in Jamaica clearly reflected that the States with stringent environmental guidelines no longer endorse the principle of a global commons. They now find themselves caught up in a conflict of interest in which their role as guardians of the global commons is now being overshadowed by their desire to grab the benefits for themselves, with little or no sense of obligation to the world community at large. We have also noted a tendency by countries that have co-sponsored pioneer investors in deep-sea mining to try to avoid their international obligations towards the environment. We are particularly concerned that they have placed the interests of investors above the interests of the global community. We make particular mention of the trend to withhold information from the International Seabed Authority under the guise of “confidentiality”, “proprietary interests”, and “information of a scientifically sensitive nature”: these are merely codes for denying global communities access to information that might allow them to prepare better for disaster prevention and other actions needed to protect the environment. Regarding nuclear issues, Papua New Guinea, consistent with our shared commitment to a stable, peaceful and environmentally safe world, supports the objectives of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test- Ban Treaty. Together with our partners in the South Pacific Forum, we continue to reaffirm our commitment 20 to maintaining the South Pacific region as a nuclear- weapon-free zone. We also express our support for the other regional nuclear-weapon-free zones in Africa, South- East Asia and Latin America and the Caribbean, and also for the proposed new initiatives for Central and South Asia. We call on all nuclear-weapon and threshold States to stop all testing, manufacturing and stockpiling of these weapons and to take steps towards the destruction of all nuclear weapons. Indeed, the same principle should apply to all weapons of mass destruction. The South Pacific Forum members have always maintained that we have a right to ban transboundary movements of radioactive and other hazardous wastes, within and through the region. We also continue to share the position that appropriate compensatory mechanisms should be established to compensate victims of past nuclear tests and provide compensation for damage resulting from any accidents. In conclusion, I wish to reaffirm that Papua New Guinea is firmly committed to the United Nations Charter; to the reforms initiated by the Secretary-General, especially those relating to the Security Council and the reconfiguration of the regional groups within the United Nations system; and to the United Nations decolonization process and the Nouméa Accord for the Kanak people of New Caledonia. We support the determination of the United Nations to work towards a global mechanism for natural- disaster preparedness and prevention; the special session of the General Assembly for the review and appraisal of the implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States; and the management of the oceans and seas. Partnership in promoting change is the key to addressing the challenges that the world will face in the twenty-first century. I believe that the challenge for all Member States is to join together to bring about transparency, accountability and good governance as the basic tenets of this Organization, its organs and subsidiary bodies. If this is achieved, the “people first” sentiment of the United Nations Charter will be truly embraced.  On behalf of the delegation of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam and on my own behalf, I should like to warmly congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. I am convinced that, thanks to your experience and wisdom, this session will have a successful outcome. I should like also to express my thanks and great appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, for his important contribution and the effectiveness of his presidency during the fifty-third session. I should also like to congratulate and warmly welcome the three new States Members of the Organization: the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. The Government and the people of Viet Nam are pleased to greet those three Pacific countries and to assure them of our willingness to establish and develop fruitful and close cooperation. The current session of the General Assembly is of special significance. As a bridge between the twentieth and twenty-first centuries, it will prepare us for entering a new century and a new millennium. This is therefore an important moment, as it affords us the opportunity to take stock of the advent and evolution and the highs and lows of this greatest international Organization over more than half a century. Such an assessment will help us draw lessons and provide us with the necessary valuable experience from which we can identify what needs to be done so as to allow the United Nations to continue to play its role and exercise its influence in the world today and in the future. The twentieth century, which is drawing to a close, has been marked by great achievements for humankind at every level of its development, but it also requires us to reflect deeply about problems unforeseen in previous centuries. Two world wars and hundreds of protracted conflicts, civil wars and situations of local tension in various regions of the world have claimed the lives of more than 150 million people and left permanent scars, both spiritual and physical, on hundreds of millions of others. They have destroyed the creative achievements of many generations, some of which was irreplaceable. That has given human beings a deeper, more burning desire to live in peace, security, freedom and happiness, and to achieve stable and sustainable development for the benefit 16 of humankind and our beautiful planet. The creation of the United Nations more than 50 years ago, with its clearly defined statutes and objectives, contributed to the realization of those aspirations. Indeed, during the twenty- first century humankind has witnessed extraordinary progress in the decolonization process, the collapse of the colonial system and the successful promotion of the sacred right of peoples to national self-determination, resulting in the birth of many independent States and, therefore, in fundamental changes in international relations. The achievements of the United Nations over the past 54 years are due in large part to the contribution of those young, independent countries. In spite of the important progress made towards the development of nation States during the twentieth century, we must acknowledge that humanity is confronted with many unresolved problems. Over the past few decades of this century, the explosion in science and technology, especially in the field of information technology, has changed the structure of many economies and profoundly affected the cultural and social life of every State. Our world has become a global village, geographic distance is less of a factor than it used to be, and interdependence, interaction and cooperation among States, regions and continents have continued to increase. It is unfortunate, however, that many of these achievements have not been used purely for the benefit humankind, but have been misused or even used abusively against humankind. The arms race, especially the development of nuclear weapons and other new weapons that are more and more sophisticated, dangerous and deadly weapons, is not only draining significant resources but also threatening to destroy people's lives and the environment. In the past year, the situation in certain regions has faced the international community with the challenge of the politics of diktat practised by a group of countries and regional organizations. The unilateral military attacks against the territorial integrity of sovereign States in the Balkans and the Gulf have set a dangerous precedent in international relations, running counter to the purposes and principles of the United Nations and in violation of the fundamental principles of international law, especially those of respect for the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Member States. This presented a serious challenge to the role and effectiveness of the United Nations, as well as to its legal foundations. The first lesson to be learned from those events is that it is not possible for the United Nations to build or guarantee peace and security in the world at large or at the regional level unless international law and the United Nations Charter are fully respected and strictly implemented. Secondly, the United Nations can play the role and exert the influence that is commensurate with its magnitude only if, now as well as in the future, it steadfastly upholds the purposes and principles defined at San Francisco 54 years ago and carries out a thorough and in-depth reform of its organizational structure and operation, in order to imbue our Organization with inner strength. By so doing, the United Nations will be able to prevent any country or regional organization from using a pretext, or a cause such as human rights, for example, to trample on the independence, sovereignty or territorial integrity of another country or to interfere in its internal affairs. By so doing, the United Nations will be able to preserve its important role and to meet the expectations of Member States with respect to preventing policies of diktat and the use or threat of use of force in international relations. And by so doing, the United Nations will be able to help create and foster the climate of lasting peace and security that is needed for the solid, sustainable development that all Member countries need today and will need in the coming century. Today, peace and security have a dialectical and consistent link with development. Development has become an important element in the broadly accepted concept of security. This has made every country more globally relevant while making all States less isolated. It should be no surprise that socio-economic development has become the main focus of the policy of the majority of States and an area in which the United Nations will continue to have an important role to play. It is undeniable that over the past decade the process of regionalization and globalization has transformed the world and benefitted many countries. But the side-effects and adverse consequences of this trend have also been increasingly evident. Obvious examples have indicated over the past two years that those consequences could destroy the achievements of long years of development and could lead to instability, locally and on a broader scale. The first victims are none other than the least developed countries: those that face the greatest difficulties in their process of socio-economic development and that should have enjoyed greater attention and more favourable conditions in the process of regional and global integration. Those countries can and should count on United Nation support as they engage in this process. 17 The role of the United Nations is to promote interaction among peace, security and development in order to ensure that globalization and regionalization will not evolve in a way that is incompatible with the needs, levels of development and specific conditions of each State and each region. Only then will nations be able to contribute to that process and enjoy the legitimate and rightful benefits derived from it. Only then can equality be secured and the painful side-effect of this process, namely the widening gap between the rich and the poor, be addressed. Despite the striking progress we have made on the long road of civilization, the end of the twentieth century is still marked by poverty and hunger, which are among the gravest tragedies and the greatest challenges facing mankind. Poverty and hunger not only lower living standards in certain countries; they have become a global problem, a factor for socio-political instability in many regions, and a problem that at present many countries cannot resolve by themselves. This problem will grow more serious if early efforts are not made to adequately address the adverse consequences of globalization and regionalization. Over the past half century, the United Nations and its specialized agencies have made an active and effective contribution to the fight against hunger and poverty; they have gained a great deal of valuable experience, of which the Organization should now make greater use. The eradication of hunger and the alleviation of poverty have become a primary, pressing task for the United Nations. They also form part of the Organization's responsibility towards Member countries that are now suffering under these twin scourges. The United Nations has set as a target the halving world hunger and poverty by 2015. To this end, it is crucial that every country's internal resources be mobilized, but external cooperation to create an enabling environment for development is equally important; it is, indeed, indispensable. We are convinced that the United Nations could play an important role in promoting North-South cooperation by encouraging developed countries to expand direct investment, provide and secure long-term financing, open their own markets and grant preferential terms of trade to developing and least developed countries, fulfil their commitment of allocating 0.7 per cent of gross national product for official development assistance, promote technology transfer, support human-resource development, vocational education and training and join other countries in implementing the 20/20 initiative on social development, especially the commitments embodied in the October 1998 Hanoi declaration on the 20/20 initiative. Such support by the United Nations will facilitate every nation's efforts and will gradually and effectively tackle the issue of poverty and hunger. The problems facing the United Nations at the turn of the century are large, complex and difficult. But, with the benefit of the experience of 54 years, the support of Member countries and the opportunities that mankind has generated, the Organization will be able to tackle them if United Nations reform is accelerated and implemented at an early date. In this regard, we welcome the efforts of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, to make the administrative structure more effective and to cut unnecessary spending. We consider that United Nations reform involves enhancement of the role of the General Assembly, the principal organ in which the vast majority of members of the international community are represented, to reflect fully the principles of democracy and equality among Member States. Reform of the Security Council is the most important part of the process. Viet Nam's consistent view is that the Security Council needs to be made more representative by increasing the number of both permanent and non-permanent members and by bringing about greater democratization, transparency and accountability. Viet Nam is of the view that an indispensable element of reform is that a representative of the developing countries must be a permanent member of the Security Council. With regard to the expansion of the Security Council, we support those candidates, such as India, Japan and Germany, that have the capacity to make a major contribution to the work of that important organ. At the same time, it should be stressed that the veto power should be used only in accordance with the letter and the spirit of Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter. Viet Nam welcomes the encouraging prospects of a peaceful settlement of conflicts and tensions in certain regions of the world, such as the Great Lakes region of Africa, and the resumption of the peace and reconciliation process in the Middle East. We follow with interest the developments in East Timor and hope that there will be no further complications, so that the situation there can be stabilized soon, thus contributing to peace and stability in the region. Viet Nam calls for an early and complete end to the policy of embargo and blockade against Cuba and other countries. Such policies are not only outdated, but run counter to current trends towards democratization and equality in international relations, causing damage and 18 suffering to the populations of the countries concerned, especially women, the elderly and children. In South-East Asia and the Asia-Pacific region the economic recovery in many countries over the past year has restored confidence in the future. The countries of the region have learned lessons, found effective solutions and taken full advantage of assistance from the international community. As a result, the growth rate has gradually recovered; exports, cooperation and investment have step by step been revitalized. However, full economic recovery and overcoming the adverse impact of the crisis to ensure sustainable development is a continuing, long-term process, a challenge that the countries of the region must take up. The Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) has taken new steps forward. The success of its sixth summit, held in Hanoi in December 1998, and the admission of Cambodia, which means that all 10 countries of the region are now members, have demonstrated a high level of unanimity and the determination and capacity of the ASEAN countries to promote solidarity, expand cooperation and overcome difficulties to give the group its appropriate role, status and strength. ASEAN with 10 members is now better placed to make its voice heard in international and regional forums, such as the ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF), the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) and the Non-Aligned Movement, on regional and global problems pertaining to peace, security, development and the survival of humankind. Maintaining peace and security in Asia in general, and in South-East Asia in particular, remains a shared concern of all member States. We hope that countries outside the region, especially the nuclear-weapon States, will cooperate with the South-East Asian countries for the implementation of the South-East Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone (SEANWFZ) Treaty. This Treaty, which came into effect in 1997, reflects the keen desire of the South-East Asian countries for peace and security in the region, and their serious commitment to the disarmament goal of a nuclear- weapon-free world. We are pleased to note, and greatly appreciate, the support for the Treaty expressed by China and Russia. When referring to the situation in the region, one cannot fail to mention the situation in the Eastern Sea — the South China Sea — where there are still incidents that cause concern to the countries of the region. Viet Nam believes that disputes in that sea should be settled by peaceful means, through bilateral and multilateral negotiations between the parties directly concerned, with respect for international law, especially the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the 1992 Declaration of ASEAN Foreign Ministers on the South China Sea. While seeking a lasting solution, all the parties concerned should exercise self-restraint, refrain from any act that may further complicate the situation and take confidence-building measures to ensure regional peace and stability, thus facilitating the search for fundamental, permanent solutions. In this regard, ASEAN's current efforts to draw up a code of conduct in the South China Sea, in accordance with the spirit of the sixth ASEAN summit, held in Hanoi, are a step in the right direction and a constructive measure, contributing to confidence- building and the peaceful settlement of disagreements in the region. As a Member of the United Nations and the international community, Viet Nam has done its utmost, and will continue to do so, to contribute to the common work of humankind. Viet Nam's consistent position is to pursue an independent, sovereign foreign policy, seeking the multilateralization and diversification of external relations, with regional and global integration. It wishes to be the friend of all the members of the international community struggling for peace, independence and development. Viet Nam is an active member of ASEAN and APEC and is preparing to join the World Trade Organization (WTO) as soon as possible. Viet Nam's diplomatic activities have been founded on the achievements recorded over the past 12 years in our work of national reconstruction, the industrialization and modernization of the country to achieve our goal of a wealthy people, a strong State and a just and advanced society. We have maintained a high rate of economic growth, reduced the poverty rate from 30 per cent in 1992 to 15.7 per cent at the end of 1998, and created more than a million jobs each year. These are tangible proofs of our economic and social development. The United Nations and its specialized agencies have greatly contributed to this achievement, as was acknowledged at the conference to review cooperation between Viet Nam and the United Nations development bodies, held in Hanoi two years ago. Furthermore, Viet Nam has, as a member of the Economic and Social Council and of the United Nations Development Programme/United Nations Population Fund Executive Board, played an active part in the joint undertakings of the international community. Viet Nam highly appreciates the role played by the United Nations in international life, both today and for tomorrow. It will make its contribution to the 19 Organization's activities and will join other Members in rebuilding and renewing the United Nations so that it can live up to the expectations of Member States and their peoples, and meet the demands of our time. During its more than five decades of existence as the world's largest international body the United Nations has made fundamental contributions to humankind's development in all areas and has created a legal framework for international relations. What the United Nations has achieved to date will come with us into the new century, along with the conviction that it will contribute to new achievements, to further progress and the resolution of outstanding differences between nations. While placing a great deal of hope in the United Nations, the Member States also understand that its effectiveness depends on the active participation of all of them. Looking back over the path we have travelled, we now appreciate more than ever the role of the United Nations and its capability, as well as the complexity and tenacity of the problems before it. We can reaffirm that the United Nations — when it has been reformed on both the organizational and institutional levels and its objectives have been adjusted — will remain an irreplaceable organization. The fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly is entrusted with a great mandate: to complete the necessary preparations so that the United Nations can enter a new stage in its development. Allow me to express from this rostrum our great confidence in the capability and crucial role of the United Nations to promote peace, security, cooperation and development for a better future for mankind. In this regard, Viet Nam pledges to work closely with other Member States to contribute actively to this noble cause, the United Nations.   It is my pleasure, Mr. President, to congratulate you on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. We are confident that your efforts and expertise will ensure the success of this session. I should also like to thank your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, for having successfully conducted the work of the fifty-third session. Furthermore, I would be remiss if I failed to express our thanks and appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his dedication to the pursuit of world peace and stability and for his continuous efforts to enhance the credibility of the Organization through the settlement of disputes, old and new. This session is unique not only because it is the last General Assembly session of the century that witnessed the birth of the United Nations, but also because it coincides with the emergence of serious trends that call for by- passing some of the basic principles on which the United Nations was built. They advocate the establishment of a new world order, one to whose requirements the United Nations must conform rather than being part of the wider and more comprehensive United Nations framework. A case in point is the call to acknowledge the principle of relative sovereignty or the obligation to interfere where necessary in the internal affairs of States, or to marginalize the role of the Security Council, which is the main tool for the maintenance of international peace and security. Some States believe that the establishment of a new world order is a result of decisive, historic developments in vision and concept. Others, however, feel that it is no more than a mere desire on the part of some to impose ideas commensurate with the drastic change that has taken place in the balance of power on the international scene. In our opinion, this issue requires further deliberations and discussions. Through dialogue we, the peoples and countries of the world, can arrive at a unanimous understanding of the questions at hand, and in this way secure the necessary assurance in our pursuit of the common good and security of humanity. History has shown that no regime or system can endure and prevail unless it is built on justice and equality. It cannot be selective, nor can it pursue a policy of double standards. It cannot assert its authority over some and remain indifferent to injustices done to others. It cannot give generously to some and persistently deprive others. Any system that seeks to maintain international peace and security must depend on preventive diplomacy to preempt problems long before their onset and exacerbation. Furthermore, it should create an effective mechanism for peacemaking, one that contributes seriously to building and safeguarding peace. It is essential that we tackle the root causes of problems, not merely their violent manifestations. We must also persevere in our pursuit of world economic and social justice. We should not be content with defending stability from a restrictively political perspective. In any event, no world order, whether old or new, can condone, for example, the occupation of the lands of others by force. It cannot allow acts of aggression to be committed against people and property, nor should it subject civilians to various forms of arbitrary practices. In March 1978, Israel undertook a unilateral act of aggression against Lebanon. It occupied one tenth of Lebanese territory. In the face of this aggression, the Security Council adopted resolution 425 (1978) and called upon Israel to withdraw its forces from all Lebanese territories immediately and unconditionally. Even though more than 21 years have passed since the adoption of that resolution by the Security Council, it has not been enforced. Israel continues to occupy cherished parts of southern Lebanon and the Western Bekaa valley. Throughout those years, Israel has continued its almost daily acts of aggression against Lebanon and its people. In 1982, Israel's hostility peaked when its forces invaded Lebanese territory, reaching the capital, Beirut, after a long siege. After a partial withdrawal from Lebanon, Israel resorted to the current scorched-earth policy. Throughout the month of July 1993, Israel bombed dozens of Lebanese villages and towns from land, air and sea positions. It inflicted heavy property damage, killed and wounded more than 250 civilians and 9 forced more than 300,000 Lebanese out of their homes and villages. In April 1996, continuing its policy of comprehensive destruction and bombardment, Israel intentionally massacred 102 civilians in the village of Qana, using incendiary bombs. Most of our fallen martyrs were women, children and elderly men who sadly thought they could find a safe haven in the premises of the United Nations forces in southern Lebanon, but alas, Israel did not hesitate to violate the sanctity of those premises. Soon after, an understanding was reached for a ceasefire and for protecting civilians. This became known later as the April Understanding of 1996. A group was established to monitor the implementation of that agreement, with the membership of Lebanon, Syria and Israel and under the co-chairmanship of France and the United States of America. Allow me, on this occasion, to express our appreciation to the group for the useful and restraining role it has played pending the realization of the full and unconditional Israeli withdrawal from the Lebanese territories. Unfortunately, this has not prevented Israel from repeatedly and seriously violating the terms of the April Understanding. Israel has lately launched yet another attack against Lebanese civilians and infrastructure. On 24 and 25 June 1999, Israeli warplanes destroyed two power plants and three bridges, causing a total blackout in Lebanon. Communications were jeopardized, extensive property damage was incurred and many people were killed. This Israeli act of aggression has had direct and indirect negative effects on the social and economic life of Lebanon until this very moment. Israel persists in its oppressive arbitrary practices against civilians in the territories that are still under its occupation. Civilians are kidnapped, detained, tortured or killed, displaced or expelled. We in Lebanon are tirelessly working with the United Nations and other humanitarian forums to put an end to these acts and to prevent their recurrence, the most recent of which was the imposition of siege on the village of Aita al-Sha b and other villages in the south. Agricultural crops were destroyed and many of the residents were kidnapped, expelled or detained. On 14 July 1999, Lebanon celebrated Lebanese prisoners' day. From this rostrum, we again call for the redoubling of efforts and for bringing more pressure to bear on Israel to release all the Lebanese detainees languishing in Israeli prisons as hostages. Israel's Supreme Court has acknowledged and condoned holding these prisoners. Some of these people are incarcerated in al-Khiyam detention camp inside Lebanese occupied territories. There are many elderly and sick among them who are often denied visits and the humanitarian care usually provided by the International Committee of the Red Cross. This is a breach of the Fourth Geneva Convention concerning the protection of civilians in time of war. On this occasion, Lebanon emphasizes once again its right to be compensated for the loss of life and for the property damage that has been inflicted upon it for many years as a result of Israel's acts of aggression and arbitrary practices against its civilians. Lebanon recalls the need for the unconditional implementation of resolution 425 (1978). Pending the enforcement of that resolution, it is only natural that the Lebanese people stand united in resisting Israeli occupation. It is also just and natural that they uphold the legitimacy of the Lebanese resistance, which is after all an embodiment of the faith in one's homeland and a highly evolved form of struggle for freedom. Moreover, the Lebanese resistance constitutes a consecration of the legitimate right of self-defense included in the terms of reference of the April Understanding of 1996. Israel repeatedly circumvents the mandate of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL). For our part, we highly value the positive and constructive role that UNIFIL plays. On this occasion, we would like to express once again our appreciation and gratitude to the Force for the noble sacrifices it has made in fulfilling its mandate under the most arduous circumstances. Lebanon is certainly committed to the Middle East peace process. Lebanon stands ready, given the inseparability of the Syrian and Lebanese tracks, to resume the negotiations from the point where they left off in 1996 and in accordance with the terms of reference of the 1991 Madrid Conference. Our ultimate objective is to reach a just, comprehensive and permanent peace in the Middle East on the basis of the resolutions of international legitimacy. Lebanon reiterates here its commitment to resolution 425 (1978), which does not call 10 on the parties concerned to negotiate but does unequivocally call upon Israel to withdraw immediately and unconditionally from all Lebanese territories. At a time when serious prospects have appeared on the horizon for the resumption of the peace negotiations, and despite what might be said about the art of negotiation, the recent declarations by senior Israeli officials do not auger well for the peace process. Nor do they expressly indicate the presence of presumably good intentions. They do not leave room for us to conclude that there is a genuine desire on the part of the Israeli side to establish peace based on justice. All of this prompts us to view with caution the conditions set out for the resumption of the peace process at the present stage, to say the least. Israel's intransigence becomes all the more apparent in the light of the statements made by its Prime Minister Barak. In those statements, Mr. Barak stressed several no's, namely, no to a return to the 1967 borders, no to the partition of Jerusalem, no to dismantling the settlements, and no to the return of Palestinian refugees. Mr. Barak repeated his position when he declared at his recent meeting with President Clinton that the Palestinian refugees shall not return to their homeland and that they should stay in the countries where they presently reside. The natural prerequisites of peace cannot be reconciled with Mr. Barak's no's. Those prerequisites are based on justice and have been endorsed by international legitimacy. They require the following elements. Israel should withdraw unconditionally from Lebanon, in accordance with the provisions of Security Council resolution 425 (1978). All of the Golan Heights should be returned to Syria, to the borders of 4 June 1967, as has already been discussed and agreed upon. The Palestinian people should be able to regain their inalienable rights. Those rights include their right to self- determination, to the establishment of their State on their national soil, with Jerusalem as its capital, and their right to return to the lands in Palestine from which they were uprooted. On this occasion Lebanon would like to draw the attention of the international community to the fact that it is impossible for a peaceful settlement to be achieved and for the long-awaited peace to endure and prevail unless the Palestinian refugees, particularly the hundreds of thousands whom Lebanon has hosted on its soil, are allowed to return to their homeland. From this international rostrum, Lebanon resonates its people's unanimous and unequivocal rejection of settling Palestinian refugees on its territories. This unanimity was consecrated in the Lebanese Constitution, which is the cornerstone of the national covenant. We see it as necessary to draw attention to the danger of approaching this question from a merely economic and social perspective while ignoring its political dimension. That political dimension is, in essence, the core of the injustice that befell the Palestinians who were displaced from their homeland. This unanimous position is shared by both the Lebanese and the Palestinians in Lebanon. Lebanon therefore renews its call for the international community to shoulder its responsibility in full. It must come up with a just and equitable settlement that addresses the issue of the final status of the Palestinian refugees, in accordance with the internationally agreed principles that govern similar situations. Those principles, it should be recalled, were recently applied in Kosovo. Settling Palestinian refugees in Lebanon, which is equally rejected by the Palestinians and the Lebanese, would create, if carried out, a potential hotbed of tension that would jeopardize the security of the Middle East region and its stability as well. We view positively the opportunity for progress in the peace process. The recent visit by United States Secretary of State Madame Madeleine Albright to some countries in the region was an acknowledgment of the responsibilities of her country and the influence that that visit can bring to bear on the parties to the conflict. For our part, we are keen on the role that the United States and the Russian Federation can play in the pursuit of a just and comprehensive peace. We believe that they can both provide the necessary guarantees for the successful implementation of the prospective agreement. We equally count on an active European role in both the political process and the development of the region as well. This applies to the negotiations for the settlement of the conflict and to the subsequent stage. We particularly applaud the supportive role of France, on which we can always rely. We would like on this occasion to thank the Presidency of the European Union, currently held by Finland. Our thanks go in particular to Ms. Tarja Halonen, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Finland, who recently visited Lebanon as part of her visit to the region. Ms. Halonen expressed the European Union's readiness to contribute to the search for a just, peaceful and comprehensive solution to the Middle East question. Lebanon was among the first countries to condemn the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in August 1990. It supported all the Security Council resolutions adopted in this regard. We express our solidarity with sisterly Kuwait on the question of the release of Kuwaiti detainees and prisoners of war. We also support Kuwait's claim of sovereignty over all of its territories and resources. Releasing the Kuwaiti prisoners can contribute to the improvement of inter-Arab relations. At the same time, Lebanon hopes that the embargo imposed on the brotherly people of Iraq be lifted. They, too, are entitled to live in dignity and to enjoy prosperity and security. Lebanon attaches special importance to the question of consolidating the security and stability of the Arab Gulf region. We applaud the efforts made by Gulf Cooperation Council to eliminate the causes of tension and to settle existing disputes by peaceful means in the context of good faith and good neighbourly relations. Those efforts were undertaken to settle, among other things, the dispute between the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran over three islands. The United Nations is the sum total of the collective will of its Member States. It has been unable to discharge all of its obligations in the context of the settlement of protracted and new disputes. It has also been unable to restore peace to many of the tension-ridden regions of the world. It is appropriate to proceed with the reform programme envisaged for the international Organization, as outlined by Secretary-General Kofi Annan in 1997. This will enable the United Nations to respond to the accelerated pace of international relations in the political, economic and social fields. But despite all the risks and pitfalls, our international Organization is still a unique international authority. It is the proper forum in which to engage in a balanced and objective discussion that will lead to at least some necessary solutions. It is heartening indeed to recall that the Organization has had some outstanding and promising achievements in several fields of human endeavour. These include achievements in the fields of human rights, the rights of the child and women's rights, as well as environment and development. They also include the progressive development of international law and the enriching of the body of international law by the establishment of new institutions such as the International Criminal Court. It is pertinent to mention in this respect that Lebanon has a time-honoured culture that is deeply rooted in history. Our country has been an integral part of the international scene, acting and reacting to it positively, since it joined the Organization as a founding Member. Because of its openness and intellectual wealth, it has always taken the lead in responding to the requirements of progress at various levels. Lebanon is seeking to join the World Trade Organization (WTO). It has been working steadily to develop its economy and rationalize its financial policies. By so doing, it will be able to bring these policies in line with the standards and regulations drawn up by WTO. This will ultimately pave the way for a world economic partnership in trade and development on the basis of mutual benefit and equality among States. Lebanon attaches great importance to environmental issues and has created a ministry for this specific purpose. Lebanon joins in the international efforts currently under way to resolve these problems. It calls upon powerful States to honour the commitments they entered into under the international conventions concluded for this purpose. Lebanon also believes that the phenomenon of globalization has become a reality that is imbued with both positive and negative elements, which in turn influence the cultures and economies of Member States. In our opinion, the United Nations is the proper forum to address and check the repercussions of this phenomenon. It is in fact the mature offspring of the 1940s version of globalization. Lebanon has always been firm in its commitment to the principles of democracy and freedom and faithful to its obligations under the Charter of the United Nations. It has always honoured the decisions and resolutions of the international Organization and its various bodies and conferences. We have built in our capital, Beirut, a beautiful headquarters building for its subsidiary bodies. We believe in its mission and are committed to its purposes. Lebanon is currently devoting every effort to complete the process of reconstruction and to consolidate and rationalize its institutions. We are steadily working on establishing the rule of law. Our unique experience with coexistence, built on moderation, tolerance and unity in a sound national environment, is an example to be followed. Lebanon is determined to regain the distinguished position it once held in the region and the 12 world. It will remain true to its Arab identity, with all the consequences and dimensions that this entails. Lebanon is a small country on the east coast of the Mediterranean. For 5,000 years, it has hosted successive civilizations. Lebanon influenced these civilizations and was influenced by them. We shall take the lead in giving, once we have recovered our national soil thanks to the struggle of our sons and with the effective support of the international community. On behalf of the Chad delegation, and on my own behalf, I would like to extend warm congratulations to you, Mr. President, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. This is both a tribute to your country, Namibia, for its contribution in defending the ideals of our Organization and a recognition of your considerable ability. The delegation of Chad is firmly convinced that your experience, talents and wisdom will contribute to the success of our deliberations. We assure you of our full support and cooperation in the accomplishment of your noble mission. I would also like to express our gratitude to your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti of Uruguay, who tactfully and adroitly led the work of the fifty-third session. Allow me also to praise the merits of our Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the foresight, wisdom and, above all, patience with which he is guiding the Organization, as well as for his sustained efforts in seeking international peace and security, despite all kinds of difficulties and the immensity of his tasks. In a few months we will enter the third millennium, a millennium filled with uncertainties, fears and unknowns, but also one of hope. That millennium will be characterized by globalization and, above all, the domination of human intelligence over nature. It will be an era of communications in which our planet will shrink to a tiny area. It will also mean the disappearance of barriers to the circulation of ideas, knowledge, culture and science. But it will also be an era of competition and complementarity. During this century, the aspirations of most peoples was to be fed, clothed, cared for, educated, trained, housed and gainfully employed. It is legitimate to hope that with the arrival of the coming century these essential, basic human needs will be met, so that we can avoid a further widening of the gap between wealthy and poor countries. On the eve of the third millennium, we must acknowledge that the lofty objectives of the United Nations, primarily the maintenance of international peace and security and the reduction of poverty among Member States, are far from being attained, although we have been focusing on them for half a century. How can we not ask ourselves these kinds of questions at this great annual gathering, where the scope and urgency of political and economic problems are made so clear? It is time to contemplate solutions that include 21 new kinds of relationships, based on solidarity and partnership, that go beyond the traditional relations of cooperation, which have proved their limitations. Turning more specifically to Chad, our major concern is to create conditions of peace and security through a fully participatory political process that involves the various political parties in the management of public affairs and in the national reconciliation policy for all the people of Chad. The involvement in this approach of all segments of society has enabled our country to restore political stability and civil peace and to establish constitutional and democratic institutions. We are firmly convinced that a democracy can be effective only when it is based on certain republican concepts, primarily justice, the primacy of human rights and the participation of local communities in the management of their own affairs. The recent establishment of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Council speak to this major concern, as does that of the National Commission on Human Rights, in operation since 1994. These efforts were acknowledged and led the United Nations Commission on Human Rights last April to end its consideration of the human rights situation in Chad and consequently remove our country from the confidential procedural situation it had been in since March 1991. Finally, our Government has undertaken a decentralization policy aimed at implementing the choice made by the people of Chad, as reflected in the Constitution of 11 April 1996, through the establishment of decentralized territorial communities and the gradual transfer of authority. In an effort to consolidate peace and reinforce social cohesion, the Government of Chad has focused on two questions: the army and anti-personnel mines. With respect to the thorny problems relating to the army and security, our Government has undertaken to ensure professional training for demobilized former combatants in order to redeploy them to new jobs, to provide them support in developing income-generating skills and to see to it that their basic needs are met. With respect to security issues, we have set up a demining programme that should contribute to increasing the safety of the national territory, where approximately a million mines and an indeterminate amount of ammunition of all calibres remain buried, thereby helping to open up Chad, especially the northern part of the country. The presence of these dangerous devices seriously impedes the movement of goods and people and hence the development of the regions concerned. In this regard, my country has signed and ratified the Ottawa Convention and has set up national structures supervised by the National High Commissioner for Demining in order effectively to combat these lethal devices. The objectives of that programme focus, inter alia, on reducing the number of victims, making the main roads safer, promoting economic and social development and facilitating the return of displaced persons. The implementation of this ambitious demining programme, whose dimensions extend beyond the borders of our country, cannot be done without the assistance of our partners and friends. That is why we wish to appeal once again from this lofty rostrum to the solidarity of Member States of our Organization and to ask them to provide us with assistance and cooperation. On the eve of the twenty-first century, the welfare of the country's citizens remains the motivating force for governmental action in Chad. That action is based on the ambitious reforms undertaken since 1995 and focuses primarily on a modern and dynamic economy. In point of fact, following devaluation in 1994, Chad rejoined the Bretton Woods institutions and on 23 April 1995 adopted a structural adjustment programme for the medium term, with resources provided by the International Monetary Fund in the framework of its Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility and by the World Bank in terms of structural-adjustment credit, and with financial assistance from our usual partners — France, the European Union and the African Development Bank. Bold reforms have been undertaken that focus primarily on stabilizing public finance, correcting external imbalances and ensuring sustainable growth. To this end we instituted an effective policy to combat poverty. Our Government has drafted and adopted a new sustainable development programme focusing on three major challenges: economic and financial, social, and political and institutional. The goal is to create a climate of social stability through sustained structural reform and through fiscal, monetary and budgetary policies that will contribute to a macro-economic consolidation and to controlling inflation. This fight against poverty focuses on four strategic priority elements in the areas of health, education, infrastructure and rural development. In this undertaking we have received support from the international 22 community at the fourth round table on Chad, held in Geneva on 21 and 22 October 1998, where some $1.12 billion was pledged. In this regard, I wish to express our deepest gratitude to friendly countries and international financial organizations and institutions for their strong response to our appeal for international solidarity. The people of Chad will never forget those commendable efforts. Following that round table, we organized two sectoral meetings, on health and on rural development. Meetings on infrastructure and education will take place in the near future. We reiterate our appeal to all interested parties to participate actively in these meetings, which will be held in N'Djamena in November and December 1999, respectively. One cannot speak of Chad's economy today without referring to the question of the exploitation of its oil resources. This is a key political, diplomatic and socio- economic issue that has fueled heated discussions both inside and outside the country. In addition to its undeniable economic importance, this project will contribute significantly to subregional integration because it establishes a partnership between two brotherly countries, namely Cameroon and Chad. In this respect, we have taken into account the development difficulties that Chad is facing, and we are considering our future in terms of petroleum-related issues with a great deal of caution. The Government and the Parliament of Chad have already set up management and distribution mechanisms for the anticipated oil income. For the first time ever in the history of the exploitation of oil deposits, legislation has been enacted to guarantee transparency in the management of oil revenue and also to set aside some of that income for territorial communities in the oil-producing regions and for future generations. The oil activity is an exceptional opportunity, which should contribute to the gradual rebalancing of our budget and give us room for manoeuvre to establish a true policy for development. This project has rightly raised hopes throughout the country. We are all firmly convinced that new efforts and many sacrifices are required to ensure the gradual implementation of the purposes and principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter as they relate to disputes between a considerable number of Member States as well as to other equally challenging evils that continue to trouble the human conscience. How can we remain indifferent when confronted with the scourges of poverty, illiteracy, foreign aggression, conflict, various pandemics and transnational problems associated with the degradation of the environment and drug trafficking? Unfortunately, these challenges will further increase with globalization, which is now inevitable. Africa is the continent that has been most exposed to those evils, and the growing number of crises is causing our efforts to be spread too thinly and reducing the meagre resources available and dividing our countries. The interdependence of peace and socio-economic development needs no further proof, especially in Chad, which has experienced the torments of war, its disastrous effects on the population and its repercussions on social and economic life. Out of a sense of duty and international obligation, my country has made and will continue to make enormous sacrifices for other African countries that have fallen victim to the problems inherent in coexistence. That is why we have participated in various peacekeeping operations in the subregion of Central Africa. In this context, I am pleased to recall Operation Turquoise, in which Chad participated to save lives in Rwanda. Chad also contributed to the Inter- African Mission to Monitor the Implementation of the Bangui Agreements and the United Nations Mission in the Central African Republic, which sought a negotiated solution between the Government of the Central African Republic and a part of the rebel army, and which resulted in bringing together different viewpoints opinions and establishing conditions required for the organization of multi-party elections. In that same spirit, my country intervened in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Our involvement, together with that of other countries, enabled the situation to be stabilized and promoted dialogue between the warring parties. With the signing of the Syrte accords on 18 April 1999, Chad withdrew its troops from the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The signing of the Lusaka ceasefire agreement by all the parties in conflict has opened up new prospects for that brotherly people. Chad hopes that that agreement, which the Security Council has endorsed, will lead to a definitive peace in that country and the entire Great Lakes region. Chad will support that process. The tragedy in the Democratic Republic of the Congo has not made us lose sight of the situation in the Republic of the Congo, which was recently on the verge of breaking up. Now passion seems to be giving way to reason. We welcome the will shown by both the Government of Congo and the opposition parties, who have taken the wise decision to negotiate to restore peace 23 to their country. Chad welcomes and encourages this positive development. To this rather sombre picture we must add the fragile situation in Angola, where the civil war has resumed throughout the national territory. This is of great concern for all of Africa, particularly since the resumption of hostilities will undoubtedly mean the failure of the considerable efforts made on all sides to bring peace to that country, which has been ravaged by a long war, thus prolonging the suffering of the Angolan people. We appeal to the Security Council to assist in restoring peace to that wounded country. We welcome the tireless efforts of the Economic Community of West African States to bring peace and security to West Africa. Those efforts have led to the signing of the ceasefire agreements in Sierra Leone and Guinea-Bissau. All the parties involved in those crises should show restraint and work towards reconciliation in the higher interests of their peoples. With regard to the Horn of Africa, we note that there has been no obvious progress in the willingness of the parties involved in the conflict in Somalia to find a political solution leading to national unity. While we welcome the efforts of Mr. Hosni Mubarak aimed at a negotiated resolution of the crisis, we also appeal to the Somali leaders to assist in restoring peace to their country. We regret the resumption of hostilities between the Ethiopians and Eritreans, which has led to a considerable loss of life and material damage. We urge all those who have mediated between the warring parties to persevere so as to put an end to those hostilities, which have further exacerbated an already disturbing situation. Closer to home, Chad welcomes the decision of the Security Council to suspend the embargo against the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. We urge that the sanctions be lifted once and for all; they have seriously damaged the interests of the brotherly people of that neighbouring country. Of all the continents, Africa seems to have suffered the most from the economic crisis and from wars and other conflict situations. But we have not forgotten the major problems that other peoples are facing. With regard to the situation in the Middle East, it has already been established that the question of Palestine is at the heart of the conflict. Its resolution lies in the implementation of the Oslo accords and, in particular, in full respect by all the parties for United Nations resolutions. The credibility of the Security Council is at stake. With the arrival of a new Israeli Government, there is new hope for the future. Chad encourages all the parties to work together in the same direction. Elsewhere, the effects of the conflicts between Iraq and Kuwait and between Iraq and Iran persist, hampering the final return to peace. We appeal to the sense of responsibility of the former warring parties to work tirelessly to restore full peace. In the Balkans, Chad encourages the efforts of the international community to restore peace to the region, and in particular to Kosovo. As for East Timor, we urge all the parties involved to complete the process begun under the auspices of the United Nations so as to end the suffering of the people there. In Asia, Chad is concerned about the fate of the Republic of China on Taiwan and its 22 million inhabitants. The Republic of China on Taiwan, which plays a major role in world trade, is a peace-loving country that fulfils the obligations in the United Nations Charter, as it has shown on many occasions. Chad supports the admission of the Republic of China on Taiwan to the United Nations as a means of correcting an injustice. It is well known that a number of conflicts stem from the unbridled arms race. In this regard, the circulation, proliferation of and illicit trafficking in small arms in Africa is of concern to us, particularly since this phenomenon, the result of the end of the cold war and numerous conflicts in the continent, has taken a disturbing turn. If appropriate solutions are not found soon, peace, security and stability in our countries will be constantly threatened. To address this situation, a conference on small arms and drug trafficking will take place in Chad under the auspices of the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa; it will be followed immediately by the twelfth ministerial meeting of that Committee. Those two important meetings will be held at Ndjamena from 25 to 30 October 1999. Chad is honoured to act as host to the Committee and will do everything in its power to ensure the success of its work. The United Nations was founded in a historical context with which we are all familiar. It has been and 24 remains a place for bringing people and ideas closer together, and its very existence has helped avert more than one catastrophe. But the international political and economic environment has changed, and the great rivalry of the cold war has disappeared, giving way to an international system that is still finding itself. We now see an increased desire by Member States to participate in the management of international affairs in addition to the management of their own. United Nations structures must therefore be adapted to the new scope of today’s problems, which requires an equal sharing of international responsibilities; these must no longer be the monopoly of a few States, however powerful they may be. To respond to these concerns, the Security Council must be reformed. Here, Chad wholeheartedly supports the position of the Organization of African Unity that, inter alia, there must be equitable and legitimate representation on the Security Council for the African continent. With respect to the global economy and world trade, appropriate steps must be taken to ensure that the all States will share equally in the benefits of globalization. Globalization of the economy certainly can have the advantage of eliminating all discriminatory and unfair practices in world trade, but it must be recognized that the lack of competitive power of the economies of the countries of the South does not enable them to benefit fully from this. Moreover, the unbridled liberalization of markets and the lack of measures to consolidate certain gains are weakening their economies and marginalizing them in the world arena. Similarly, the indebtedness of those countries places a heavy burden on their meagre budgetary resources, and wipes out all their development efforts. I welcome the recent decision taken by the Group of Seven at its summit held at Cologne, Germany, to ease the debt of heavily indebted poor countries. Such initiatives are praiseworthy, but they remain insufficient. Chad urges the wealthy countries to make a greater effort to enable poor countries finally to address the external-debt burden, which is a true obstacle to economic and social development. Let me express my sincere congratulations, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. Under your leadership, I am confident the Assembly will effectively address the issues before it. My Government salutes the Secretary-General, the Secretariat and the United Nations agencies for their dedication and commitment to building peace and confidence around the world. The Solomon Islands also applauds the Secretary-General’s programme of modernization and revitalization of the Organization, aimed at creating a more effective United Nations to better serve the development needs of its Members, thus ensuring peace and security in the twenty-first century. My country will be a committed partner in achieving this goal in the new millennium. The Government and people of the Solomon Islands warmly welcome the admission of our sister nations — the Republic of Nauru, the Republic of Kiribati and the Kingdom of Tonga — as new Members of the United Nations. This makes the principle of universality, as stipulated by the United Nations Charter, a near reality. It is also further testimony that the United Nations is indispensable. Its body of international laws is central to the protection and security of our small island States. While there have been important successes for the international community, peace and development in many parts of the world remain precarious. The past decade has witnessed the increase in the world’s illicit drug problem and its related crimes, terrorism, large-scale movement and trade in small arms and the proliferation of nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction. Equally alarming is the rise in local and regional conflicts in various parts of the world and the threat they pose to national and international peace, stability and advancement. Poverty, meanwhile, remains a major obstacle to the economic progress of many developing countries, especially the least developed. In addition, the economic threats associated with globalization and trade liberalization have increased in recent years. For small island developing States like the Solomon Islands, post-cold-war security now embraces human, environmental and economic dimensions. The most important asset of any country is its people. In a small island developing State like mine, investment in human- resource development is not only vital, but a critical prerequisite to embracing national peace, stability and economic prosperity. In this connection, the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, as reiterated by many representatives at the special session earlier this week, remains a valid blueprint for the sustainable development of small island 6 developing States, including my country. The environmental and economic vulnerabilities of small island developing States present major difficulties to our efforts to achieve sustainable development. Climate change and sea-level rise are matters of survival for the small island developing States. Annex I parties must fulfil their commitment under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The increasing incidence and magnitude of natural disasters are particularly alarming. On the other hand, the overall decline in official development assistance flows, the erosion of trade preferences, falling primary commodity prices and limited market access could severely harm our small and fragile economies. Hence, greater international support is required for the successful implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action in the future. My Government recognizes the importance of good governance to advance human development and to promote sustained economic growth. We are taking measures towards this end. The call for good governance, however, must be accompanied by the necessary resources and the creation of an enabling regional and international environment. Allow me to outline the views and some of the steps taken by my Government to address some of the aforementioned issues, including our efforts to create and strengthen accountable administrative and financial institutions, as well as the appropriate policies and legislation. When my Government assumed office in September 1997, we were confronted with a major financial crisis in the public sector. The domestic financial system was overburdened with public debt, which the Government was unable to service. Additionally, the Asian financial crisis in late 1997 further deepened the crisis in the domestic economy. The public service was unable to deliver goods and services effectively and efficiently. The private sector became stagnant. This state of affairs demanded an urgent overhaul of the public sector and the need to create a vibrant private sector. Short-term, medium-term and long- term measures had to be taken. Thus, my Government responded with a series of policy statements committing itself to a broad-based programme of policy and structural reforms. The overall goals of the policy and structural-reform programme are to foster financial and macroeconomic stability, to establish a more effective and efficient public service and to create an environment for the private sector that is conducive to viable growth and sustainability. It is obvious that, although we have the primary responsibility to implement our reform initiatives, we cannot do it alone. The experiences of small economies that have undertaken similar reforms indicate that such reforms can be accelerated by access to capital — often grant in aid — technical assistance, technology transfers, assured markets for primary commodities and links to new market locations. Therefore, the political will that my Government has demonstrated has to be supplemented by significant international support if we are to fulfil the aspirations of our people. I am grateful to our bilateral and multilateral development partners for the positive response they have shown so far towards our reform initiatives. Additional assistance will be required to implement, in particular, our medium-term development strategy and our public sector investment programme. Peace and development are mutually interdependent. In this connection, the current insurgency on the island of Guadalcanal is a big set-back to our development efforts. It has already affected various sectors of the economy and caused the displacement of more than 30,000 people. While the crisis may not be comparable to major conflicts in other parts of the world, its net result in human loss and suffering is relative. This crisis has to be understood in the context of our smallness, our limited resources, our ethnic and cultural diversity and our history. The Solomon Islands, with a population of 400,000, has more than 80 different languages. Thus, if the insurgency is left to escalate, it could seriously threaten national peace and security. My Government is, therefore, firmly committed to an early resolution of the conflict. The engagement of the Commonwealth special envoy is a preventive measure to bring about reconciliation between the parties concerned. I wish to acknowledge the assistance of the Commonwealth Secretariat in this regard. Three agreements to settle the crisis have been reached. We are working very hard to ensure their implementation. I am also grateful for the prompt response of the United Nations Secretary-General to my request for a United Nations mission to assess the humanitarian aspects of the crisis. My Government is committed to working closely with the appropriate United Nations agencies to implement the recommendations of that mission. We also 7 appreciate the humanitarian assistance of our development partners, including the Red Cross, to the displaced population. My Government is fully aware of the need to pursue the necessary policies and programmes for nation- building through the creation of long-term development strategies that promote social cohesion and national unity. My Government attaches great importance to regional cooperation, security and development. The political, economic and environmental regional organizations in our region, including the South Pacific Forum, the South Pacific Environmental Programme, the Pacific Community, the South Pacific Forum Fisheries Agency and the South Pacific Geoscience Commission, provide vital mechanisms for policy advice and action on issues of regional concern and interest, especially in the areas of the environment, population, fisheries resources management and vulnerability index. The Solomon Islands has benefited from their contributions and thus will continue to support and actively participate in their activities. The thirtieth South Pacific Forum meeting, to be held in Palau next week, provides an opportunity for us to discuss how best to strengthen regional cooperation in order to effectively cope with the challenges of the new millennium and to harness the opportunities it will bring. Furthermore, my Government will continue to support the efforts of the Government of Papua New Guinea to rebuild peace and confidence on Bougainville. We also note the contributions of other South Pacific neighbours and of the United Nations in this process. The Solomon Islands further welcomes the progress made in the last decade in the decolonization process in New Caledonia. We reiterate our support for the aspirations of the Kanaks of New Caledonia to attain self-government and political independence. The process towards self- determination for other remaining non-self-governing territories, including Guam and French Polynesia, must also be facilitated. The United Nations is well placed to continue to facilitate this process. My Government is concerned about the deterioration of law and order in East Timor following the referendum on self-determination. The parties concerned must now honour the outcome of the referendum. Violence must not be used to deny the choice that was made by the overwhelming majority: the chance to move forward. The Solomon Islands appreciates the leading role of Australia and New Zealand in the international peacekeeping mission in East Timor. At this juncture, let me renew the support of the Solomon Islands for the appeal of the 22 million people of the Republic of China on Taiwan to be represented in the United Nations and its related organizations. Taiwan is capable of and willing to fulfil the obligations contained in the Charter of the United Nations. Its outstanding economic success has enabled it to play a positive role in promoting world trade and in eradicating poverty. It has rendered development assistance, including technical training and technology transfer, to developing countries, including my own. It has responded to United Nations appeals for emergency relief and rehabilitation assistance to countries that have suffered from natural disasters and wars. Regarding the accomplishments of the Republic of China on Taiwan, are these not sufficient to merit diplomatic recognition from the international community? Taiwan's membership in the United Nations system would contribute substantially to the security and stability of the Asia-Pacific region and of the world in general. It would also provide an effective basis for peaceful dialogue. The process of self-realization, supported by the United Nations, has resulted in the membership of North and South Korea in the United Nations. The United Nations ought to give similar consideration to the question of Taiwan. Ideally, the membership of the Republic of China on Taiwan, together with the People's Republic of China, will make a stronger United Nations. The Solomon Islands would welcome the opportunity to work through the United Nations system to achieve a peaceful and just resolution. My Government joins those who spoke before me in supporting the call by the Secretary-General to accord high priority to preventive action to address the rise in local, national and regional conflicts. Are the current mechanisms available to the United Nations adequate to effectively resolve small-scale armed conflicts? Is there a role for regional organizations to make a contribution to this preventive approach? The reform of the Security Council should include consideration of a workable and effective preventive strategy. In addition, a reconfiguration of the United Nations regional groupings is necessary to reflect present-day realities and to accommodate the interests and concerns of Member States. Perhaps the most profound challenge for the next century is how to deal with the imperatives of globalization, that is, capitalizing on its positives and mitigating its negatives. In other words, the challenge of 8 globalization in the new era is not to halt the expansion of global markets, but to find the rules and institutions for stronger governance to preserve the advantages of global markets and competition within a framework of cooperation to enhance human progress. Only the United Nations and other international institutions have the scope and the legitimacy to generate the principles, norms and rules that are essential if globalization is to benefit everyone. Developing countries, in particular the least developed, need international support to build the capacities to enable us to become more effectively and beneficially integrated into the global economy. Debt relief, new and additional resources for development and better diverse trade opportunities are required to facilitate this process. The Millennium Assembly, to be held in September 2000, affords a unique opportunity for all States to discuss and exchange views on how best to address the many challenges facing us. My Government looks forward to participating actively in this important gathering. Equally important are the special session of the General Assembly to review the implementation of the outcome of the World Summit for Social Development and Further Initiatives: the review of the Beijing Fourth World Conference on Women; and the Third United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries, to be held in the year 2001. Finally, the United Nations needs adequate financial resources to achieve its objectives. The current financial difficulties do not bode well for the Organization. Member States must honour their Charter obligations and pay their dues in full, on time, and without conditions. Despite our own economic and financial constraints, my Government has settled most of its arrears to the United Nations, including contributions to the regular budget for 1999 and peacekeeping operations. This century has witnessed vast advances in transport and communications technology, the increase of global trade and wealth and improvements in the area of international peace and security. New information and communications technologies have driven globalization. Unfortunately, these achievements, including the benefits and opportunities of globalization, have not been widely enjoyed and distributed. Global governance of globalization must focus on human security, development, equity, ethics, inclusion and sustainability. Let us unite in the spirit of the new millennium to build a better world to live in.  The convening in the splendid metropolis of New York of this last General Assembly session of the millennium affords me the happy opportunity, on behalf of the people, the Government of Public Salvation and the head of State, His Excellency President Laurent-Désiré Kabila, of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, to convey our warmest greetings to all people the world over who love peace and justice. It is my pleasant duty also to congratulate the President of the General Assembly and the other Assembly officers on their unanimous election to the leadership of the Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. My country views the election to the presidency of Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab as recognition of his many sterling qualities, both human and professional, and as an acknowledgement by the international community of the important role played by his country, Namibia, in building an Africa and a world that will be marked by peace, political stability and economic prosperity. The President may be sure that the delegation of the Democratic Republic of the Congo will unreservedly support him in fulfilling his mandate and in guiding the work of the Assembly to a successful conclusion. I also extend to his predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, our full appreciation of the extremely important work he did during his presidency, as well as the commitment he showed throughout to the triumph of the ideals embodied in the United Nations Charter. Finally, my delegation would like to welcome here in our world Organization three new Members: the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. I invite Members to read my prepared text at their leisure, so that I may say a few other things. I begin with a good quotation, from Article 2 of the United Nations Charter: “The Organization and its Members, in pursuit of the Purposes stated in Article 1, shall act in accordance with the following Principles. “1. The Organization is based on the principle of the sovereign equality of all its Members. “2. All Members, in order to ensure to all of them the rights and benefits resulting from membership, shall fulfil in good faith the obligations assumed by them in accordance with the present Charter. “3. All Members shall settle their international disputes by peaceful means in such a manner that international peach and security, and justice, are not endangered. “4. All Members shall refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state, or in any other manner inconsistent with the Purposes of the United Nations”. I say to representatives: This is the United Nations Charter, your Charter. Are there represented in this Hall — yes or no — Members that violate these principles governing relations between nations? Are there represented in this Hall — yes or no — Members that do worse than those that do not pay their dues, or pay them late, regarding which immediate reminders are sent, and rightly so, since the rules of procedure of the Organization of which they are Members prescribe that for its proper functioning each Member must pay its dues? Failing to do so even means being stripped of the right to speak here at the United Nations. So, if you have your right to speak taken away, if you are punished as a Member of the United Nations because you do not pay your dues, what about those who violate Article 2 of the Charter, who cross the boundaries of another State with their armies, sow hardship in that country, occupy vast portions of its territory, plunder its natural resources, steal the fauna and rare species of animals which international organizations recognize as being received by other countries, carry out a blitzkrieg such as the one in the early 1940s, without warning, without provocation, entering the country of another people with their arms and everything else they need, under pretexts which I shall expose in a little while. On 2 August 1998, some two years ago, our brothers from the hills of Rwanda, Burundi and Uganda invaded our country in an unprovoked blitzkrieg, without having declared war, and it continues to this very day. For two years now those Members of the United Nations have been violating Article 2, and they continue to violate it, with arrogance and total impunity, which is not the case for those who fail to pay their dues. 28 It is perhaps better to violate Article 2, occupy other countries, pillage them, deport their inhabitants and torture children, women and old persons, than it is to commit the mortal sin of failing to pay up. There are two yardsticks, double standards, which we regard as an immense injustice. As I speak I feel the presence of illustrious persons who have spoken from this rostrum in the past, such as Cabral, Nkrumah and — I say this with a great deal of emotion — Lumumba, who came here to denounce what was being set in train more than 30 years ago, under United Nations banners which is now being repeated. We know the United Nations. The French rightly say “A cat that has been scalded is even afraid of cold water.” They have already come, those United Nations forces; they came to restore peace, and the result was that for one of the most illustrious sons of our people, the most admired African nationalist President Patrice Lumumba, the flag of the United Nations served as a shroud. We do not wish, we will not allow, that same flag to be a shroud for those who have taken up the torch that fell from Lumumba's hands and who carried it, with some help of course, as far as lying down — with their boots on — in Mobutu's bed. This is something with which the Assembly is familiar. It is on behalf of my President, my friend, my long- time comrade, that I speak. As representatives will see, and as I often say, we will have no more charming “Rastas”, because we lost our hair waiting for President Kabila to return to relight the torch that fell from Lumumba's hands. If people do not watch out, if they let things slide along, if they tolerate arrogance and do not stand up to impunity, there are those who will begin to dream of wrapping Kabila up in the United Nations flag, as was done in the case of Patrice Lumumba not long ago. When events are repeated, they do not always happen in exactly the same way, but sometimes the repetition strikes a familiar chord. Now we see the United Nations delaying putting an end to what it calls euphemistically the “conflict” in the Great Lakes region. This terminology is being used for some reason — but what? A foreign army crosses the border, occupies the country, a part of the country; it pillages the country's wealth — and the United Nations calls this a “conflict”? We should check our dictionaries. This is a war. Instead of shouting themselves hoarse about sending peacekeepers, Member States must send people who can put an end to the war. This is what I am waiting for. Our Rwandan, Ugandan and Burundi brothers must be solemnly requested here and now to go back home. They have no business being in our country. They are undermining all national reconstruction efforts. This should be clear to those who understand the condition in which we found this country, which used to be called Zaire and which we now call, as Lumumba called it, the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The presence of these outsiders, their occupation, impedes our efforts to reconstruct our country. They came upon us like thieves who attack without warning. They attacked while we were busy sowing corn, peanuts and beans, and we were doing so because that was what we was needed in this country that is overflowing with diamonds, gold, cobalt, copper and so forth. In order to help our people we had begun by planting peanuts, corn and beans, but our efforts were stopped cold by these people who are now in our territory, who came from the hills, who came to defend their borders — their borders that, according to them, were threatened by genocidal bands in our country. I ask the Assembly to look at a map of Africa, a map of the Congo in particular. I come from the Atlantic Coast province of Bas-Congo. Do you know where these people who began the war came from, in order to secure their borders? They came from 2,000 kilometres away from my province. They began in my province in order to secure borders 2,000 kilometres away. They brought soldiers 2,000 kilometres from their borders in order to begin the occupation of our country. Luckily, they took a licking, and they would all have been wiped out if the Americans had not asked us to allow them to return home along a designated route. They retreated after their thrashing and tried their luck in the east of our country. After the ceasefire requested by Secretary-General Kofi Annan, United Nations staff went to the area to carry out an order of the World Health Organization to vaccinate all children up to five years of age. We have vaccinated them in the part of the country that we continue to control. But these others — who only have two hands, both of which are busy pillaging — have yet to vaccinate the children in this age group. Thus, these children are in danger not only of polio, but also of other diseases that the agencies of our Organization have been striving to eliminate from our continent. These soldiers do not have time to vaccinate our children. They do not even have time to pillage effectively because these Horatii and Curiatii have taken to fighting each other on our soil. They came to take control of our country, but now, how strange, they are fighting each other, these people who came to teach us 29 democracy, these people who came to restore peace. In order to have a break from their looting, they are enjoying a little war on our land, and in the process destroying the 3 million doses of vaccine that the United Nations, through the World Health Organization, sent to Kisangani. They shoot at each other, each band allied with this or that local. This is what is happening. And then these people take their place here as United Nations Members — after having treated us like that, and as they continue to do so. They are building up their arsenals, bringing in troops, taking towns. What reassures us is the teaching of the Marquis de Sade that taking is not the same as possessing. Thus, these people are taking towns but they do not possess them. And they will not posses them because, just as in erotic relations, there is no possession without consent — that consent that has been given to us. Otherwise, our people would not have fled to the forests to escape from these people who come from the hills. Our citizens' lengthy stay in the forests has led to the reappearance of some diseases that were eradicated as long ago as the Belgian colonial era. Having to flee the invaders like the plague makes our citizens' lives more difficult. And these people from the hills continue to advance even though they signed with us, last 10 July, a Ceasefire Agreement that lacks both fire and a cease, as they continue to advance and lay siege to our cities. Their latest exploit, which they are now engaged in, is to lay siege to the city of Mbuji-Mayi, the world diamond capital, but also the world capital of children afflicted with polio. I do not think that their haste and willingness to return to Mbuji-Mayi are out of desire to vaccinate the poor Congolese children who are infected with or at risk of getting polio. These people from the hills do not have a third hand, as I said earlier, yet I am sure that, driven by their greed, they are going to take as many diamonds and as much copper and cobalt as they can — and at the risk of fighting each other for these minerals, since Uganda also wants to take them. The statistics on sales of diamonds indicate that last month our Rwandan brothers sold more than a million carats of diamonds — a mineral not mined in their country — and with the money from the sales they are buying weapons so as to be able to fight us. Then they take more diamonds, buy more weapons and continue to fight us. In this Hall speeches have been made against dirty money. Therefore, we are outraged to see bloodstained cobalt, bloodstained copper, bloodstained gold and bloodstained diamonds for sale on the international market, and to see that it does not occur to the buyers of this booty to put a stop to this practice by refusing to buy it — even though they oppose dirty money. Double standards continue to prevail. Dirty money poses a threat to the world. And yet, while the blood of the Congolese people is spattered on our cobalt, our copper and our gold, that doesn't seem to bother those from all over the world who buy them and give money to the pillagers and occupiers our country. If we revisit this issue, I reserve the right to address it again. I wish, however, to speak out loud and clear against the infamous pretext that has aroused the world's prurience and sensitivity about genocide. Those who are guilty of genocide are in our country right now. Let them leave and go on sowing misery in their own countries: Rwanda, Uganda or Burundi. As I said at the outset, President Kabila has raised Lumumba's torch and welcomed those who sought refuge in our country, because over there you do not seek refuge — you get your throat slit. I was just a schoolboy when I saw Hutus fleeing cutthroat Tutsi and Tutsi fleeing cutthroat Hutus. They all sought refuge with us. That is how those who helped us, who walked with us on our march on Kinshasa, came to be refugees in our country — they fled Hutus who would have cut their throats. That is at the heart of the current instability and reflects the values of our brothers in Rwanda. We must help our Rwandese to change their political culture. When the “one man one vote” law was enacted in 1960, the obsession of each of these groups was to seize power and abuse it in order to hasten the carnage. This carnage has been alternating and reciprocal and did not begin in 1994. I cited a date when I was in short pants, and I can assure the Assembly that it was not yesterday. It is the open faucet that produced the interahamwe that we must close. Rwanda must become democratic; Rwanda must adopt a culture of politics and abandon its culture of carnage. Rwanda must leave our country; Uganda must leave our country; Burundi must leave our country and turn over the task of providing security to United Nations observers, who will take their place and serve as a buffer force between us. Those people are our neighbours and we can never replace our neighbours, but they are on our territory, which means they are no longer our neighbours. I ask the Assembly to help us to resume our status as neighbours. Let them go back home and if 30 there are problems that we must settle among ourselves, we shall settle them by peaceful means. I am speaking without acrimony. We hold out our hands to our brothers from Rwanda, who have been here for several days. I offer them signals of friendship when we pass, and they respond. We are here so that in three months, when the new millennium dawns, we will not still be fighting. One must deal with urgent matters quickly. The Lusaka process, in which I participated, raised hopes that have been dashed by dilatory tactics. One moment the Congolese and Rwandese affiliates who refuse to come; the next, it is the Ugandans or their Congolese puppets. Here we are on 29 September and nothing has yet been done seriously to implement an Agreement that was reached on 10 July. That is why we ask the Assembly, if only out of respect for the Articles of the Charter, to do something about it. It is intolerable and incomprehensible that these people remain, and may even take the floor here, while they continue to violate the United Nations Charter and the principles that bring us together here. If you violate the principles of an organization to which you belong, you are no longer worthy of belonging. We must remind our brothers that, as Members of the United Nations, they are bound to respect the Charter. This cannot be done by occupying other people's countries. If differences must be settled by invasion and plunder, there will no longer be a United Nations, because there will no longer be any rules to unite us. That prompts my request to the Assembly, because the suffering being endured by the Congolese people and the atrocities being visited upon us are unimaginable. Under the very nose of the Vatican, in the Italian mission of Kasika, these new-style Huns entered, tore open the chest of a traditional chief, pulled out his heart, shredded it and distributed the pieces like hosts. The killers who did this sucked on the bloody heart as if it were an ice-cream cone. We have seen this and continue to witness such acts. Our United Nations mission is at Members' disposal to provide irrefutable testimony, which we have published in a three-volume white paper that could easily grow into further volumes describing similar incidents. We have requested that this white paper be issued as a working document of the Security Council. All are invited to study it in order to understand precisely what is happening and to put an end to this situation — to save the United Nations itself, to help us Africans, and the Congolese in particular, who had to wait 32 years to defeat and eliminate a regime of notorious satraps, only to see new satraps step in two months later to occupy our country and put it to the sword. Help us to make our Rwandese, Ugandan and Burundian brothers understand that they must go home. They have no business in our country; let them relinquish their place to United Nations forces, which will secure their borders. That is in itself a fiction that we have not had an opportunity to dwell on. They helped us to raise Lumumba's torch. They were in our army. Most officers in our army were from Rwanda, as was the Chief of Staff, who dispatched his troops on the basis of his particular military skills. Moreover, these people have occupied that region of our country for two years and are still hunting the Interahamwe, as the Incas were once hunted here. They will not stop until Joe the Ugandan and Bill the Rwandese have extended their hunting grounds to the entire territory of our country while they prance after the Interahamwe. This is just a pretext. If they were not able to catch a single Interahamwe while their officers were in our army; if they have been unable to stop the interahamwe in their two-year occupation of that region, then the task is beyond them. It must be left to the United Nations to unseat these Interahamwe, if they exist, and let us pursue our national reconstruction. I have a great deal more to say and believe that we will have further opportunities in due course.    Mr. President, I would like to congratulate you as you take on the honour and responsibility of leading the Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. Allow me to express our deep appreciation to His Excellency Minister Didier Opertti, who led us last year with admirable efficiency, insight and, on occasion, good humour. I take this opportunity also to commend the Secretary-General for his dedication and inspiring leadership in the service of our Organization. I would also like to welcome Presidents Teburoro Tito, Rene Harris and King Taufa’ahau Tupou IV, their delegations and the people of Kiribati, Nauru and Tonga, all fellow members of the Asia-Pacific family, to the United Nations. Their membership in our Organization should further bolster the global consensus on peace and progress in the world. Almost a decade ago the cold war ended and we are today at the doorstep of a new century. Over those years, we achieved much as individual nations and as Members of this Organization. Yet, our collective search for peace and progress for all continues. After many years of eloquent debates, after hearing many persuasive proposals and formulations, how well indeed have we mastered the language of peace. But the wars and strife that afflict our world, even as we speak, show that we have neither fully learned nor lived the ways of peace. As at its founding, our Organization is faced with the dire spectre of countless multitudes living in utter dread and misery. The much-touted new global order, where nations live in harmony and peace, where growth and sustainable development are rights and not privileges and where justice rules and human rights are upheld remains a promise. We encounter newer threats to the peace, and old threats are re-emerging. Poverty stalks many lands. Far too many people have their human rights ignored or violated. Our very Earth protests decades of unbridled abuse. One of the clear victors at the end of the cold war was the free market. For most of our lives, the assault upon the very idea and practice of the free market came from an ideology. Today, even that ideology embraces the methods, if not the spirit, of the free market. It now seems that the growing reach of the free market, or 9 globalization, is held back only by our inability to adapt to it fast enough. For so many years, East Asia was admired for its success with globalization. The so-called East Asian miracle was little more than our region’s economic response to it. Our fast growth doubled our incomes and moved tens of millions of our people out of poverty. Up until July 1997, we thought all was well. Now we know better; we have learned our lessons. Our difficulties could have been less severe or avoided with better public and corporate governance, with better management of financial systems, with greater transparency and accountability; in other words, with greater openness, which is the heart and spirit of the free market or any truly free system. Happily, the crisis did not destroy the conditions underpinning East Asia’s growth formula of outward-oriented industrialization. A propensity for high savings, abundant highly educated human resources, higher productivity and economic reform policies remain. Today, East Asia is on the road to recovery. Consumer confidence is rising. Exports are booming. Inflation has been tamed. Investors are coming back. Japan, the Republic of Korea, Singapore, Thailand and Malaysia are all growing again. The Philippine economy will grow by more than 3 percent this year and over 5 percent next year. Yet, there is no retreat on our core reform agenda. Economic restructurings continue. Greater economic integration goes on. The Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) countries, for instance, took extraordinary steps to underscore their commitment to free trade and investment. During its Hanoi summit last year, ASEAN resolved to accelerate, not retard, the establishment of the ASEAN free trade area to the year 2002. We are accelerating the implementation of the ASEAN Investment Area and ASEAN Industrial Cooperation schemes. We have also moved towards greater financial cooperation by establishing at the Asian Development Bank a regional economic monitoring and surveillance mechanism. It should encourage transparency, institute better coordination of economic policies and help ward off future financial crises. However, internal reforms cannot be enough. The crisis also exposed the weaknesses lurking in the international system. Realizing early on that the phenomenon of globalization should be addressed multilaterally, the United Nations has sought the cooperation of other multilateral organizations to strengthen normative, legal and institutional frameworks in the hope that the global economy can be managed more effectively and, perhaps more importantly, more equitably. For the yawning gap between poor and rich nations continues to widen, and the pace and level of development of countries are, alas, more uneven. In a fast-globalizing and interdependent world, augmenting the ability of developing countries to participate fully in the global economy is the win-win solution for all. Insecure market access, high levels of protection and support of agriculture in industrialized countries and the continued high tariffs on industrial products from developing countries obviate greater progress for all. The international trading system must adopt a new paradigm in which sustainable development should be the central theme. The World Trade Organization Ministerial Conference to be held in Seattle late this year should be not only an opportunity to launch a new round of multilateral trade negotiations. It should also be an occasion to imbue the process with a sense of direction that responds to the development needs of developing countries. The global financial architecture must be strengthened. There is urgent need, as the Committee for Development Policy pointed out in its 1998 report to the Economic and Social Council, for the coherent development and effective monitoring of international standards and codes of conduct for private financial management and capital flows. There is also need to curb destructive competition and inconsistency in national regulatory frameworks. More and more, countries and regions need to reach out to one another in the spirit of cooperation and partnership for development. The ten-year-old Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council, or APEC, is founded on this conviction. So is the much younger Asia-Europe Meeting, or ASEM. And it heartens us that the East Asia-Latin America Forum, having recently taken its first steps, may soon join in the more sustained and structured effort to link up for global progress. The Philippines anticipates a similar region-to-region initiative with Africa and will contribute its utmost to any such initiative. From a historical perspective, we are still at the very early stage of globalization. With globalization having the potential to grow exponentially, as do the revolutions in 10 technology and information that fuel it, this early stage is perhaps the most critical one. Only earnest international cooperation can ensure that this process does not lead to the marginalization of any nation. But, as our recent experience in East Asia shows, economic progress alone cannot and does not engender the optimal well-being of nations or peoples. Progress in ensuring political stability and security should accompany growth. Any asymmetry in the pace, breadth and depth of change in these facets of the political economy is a seed of future instability. Moreover, just as our economic prospects are determined by our participation in the global economy, our future peace and security will depend not only on our internal resilience, but also on the active cooperation of others. In East Asia the most urgent undertaking for ensuring peace is the reconfiguration of the strategic security structure in the region. The holes left gaping by the end of the cold war must be filled; the new parameters of the regional security equation must be defined. The situation in the Taiwan Strait is a concern to us all. So are the issues of missile development in the Korean peninsula and nuclear development and uneasy peace in South Asia. The South China Sea remains a potential flashpoint. We are hopeful that, in addition to measures advancing regional economic and financial cooperation, a regional code of conduct in the South China Sea can be adopted at the summit of leaders of ASEAN, China, Japan and the Republic of Korea that we are hosting in Manila in November. East Asia has clearly not yet settled all its great issues of war and peace. But we are trying hard and succeeding in some important ways. At the sixth ASEAN Regional Forum — the only forum on security that includes all the major Powers with a stake in our region — we agreed to draft rules of procedure by which preventive diplomacy could bolster and complement regional confidence-building measures. Last December we agreed to move closer to the full activation of the ASEAN High Council and the dispute settlement mechanisms mandated by the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia. The 5 May 1999 Agreement on East Timor and the free, fair and orderly conduct of the 30 August consultations there are truly significant developments for lasting peace in our region. For the Philippines, it is of the utmost importance that the chaos there be quickly resolved and the horrendous human suffering be stanched. We therefore welcome Indonesia’s decision to invite the assistance of the United Nations and of a multinational force, and its creation of a national commission of inquiry to investigate and bring to justice persons responsible for the atrocities and human rights violations in East Timor. We also commend the Secretary-General and the neighbouring and other countries for responding quickly to restore order and facilitate humanitarian relief in East Timor. As a fraternal neighbour of the peoples of Indonesia and East Timor, we will contribute all we can to ameliorate the humanitarian situation and put back on track a peaceful transition. Elsewhere, the Sharm el-Sheikh Agreement is a positive development for the Middle East peace process. We are also heartened by the agreements reached recently in Sierra Leone and the Congo, and between Eritrea and Ethiopia. We hope that the resolution of the immediate crisis in Kosovo will soon create the conditions conducive to the establishment of lasting peace there. It is true that we have avoided major inter-State conflicts of late, and that States are more willing to resolve disputes peacefully. But the continuing tensions in various regions of the world could still draw nations into conflict and divert attention and resources away from development. For the Philippines, regional cooperation provides a key to managing potential and actual conflict situations. We have seen this in the efforts of the ASEAN troika, the United Nations and the international community to restore political stability in Cambodia, and in the dispatch of a multinational force to East Timor with authorization from the Security Council and upon the invitation of the Indonesian Government. We agree with the Secretary-General that it is necessary and desirable to provide support for regional and subregional arrangements and initiatives on matters of international peace and security. The United Nations, lacking the capacity, resources and expertise to address all issues unique to each region of the world, should complement rather than supplant regional peace efforts. This, however, will require significant investment from all of us. In the first instance, we need to invest a lot of goodwill and build trust in one another so that clearer criteria and a more predictable basis can guide Security Council authorization for all types of peace missions. We realize that no two situations are the same, but inaction due to stalemates in the Council, in the face of serious threats to peace and human life, threatens the credibility, legitimacy and future effectiveness of our Organization. Secondly, the Organization and its Member States need to invest in practical steps that can be taken in the areas of training assistance, joint peacekeeping exercises, greater participation in standby arrangements, partnerships between countries whose contingents require equipment support and those able to provide it, and closer cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations. And thirdly, perhaps more important, we need to invest our work and way of thinking with greater flexibility and innovation. The nature of conflict has changed. Crises and humanitarian situations now involve many more actors, from Governments and international organizations to non- State players. And their effects, just like their causes, are more complex and far-reaching. Let us face it, much of what was considered before as the internal affairs of a State is not so any more — or ever. Humanity is indivisible. Peace is indivisible. State sovereignty is important; it will always be. So is individual sovereignty. That the redefinition of one should coincide with the renewed consciousness of the other is, to my delegation, not an accident. These developments need not even be seen as parallel, as in they do not meet; for in truth, they converge. But we agree with the Secretary-General that the more important question is how the United Nations — the only truly universal, if imperfect, arm of the international community — is to respond to the political, human rights and humanitarian crises affecting so much of the world. We have to be more innovative in our approaches to problems relating to massive and systematic human rights violations. We agree that empowering the United Nations enough to match its Charter mandates in today’s and tomorrow’s world requires that we, the Member States, update our concept of national interest. Last year, before this Assembly, I articulated Philippine policy, thus: “Like all other States, the Philippines pursues foreign policy to promote national security and development. But we view national security beyond the traditional concerns of sovereignty and territorial integrity. For in a global regime characterized by evolving multipolarity of political and military power and by growing economic and financial interdependence, with all their attendant opportunities and risks, my nation’s peace and prosperity increasingly depend on stability and growth abroad. As President Estrada has said: Our way of life, our fundamental values and our institutions can flourish and find true expression only if we enjoy political stability, economic solidarity, socio-cultural cohesion, moral consensus and ecological balance, at home and with our partners in the world. Our national security and development” [or in short, our national interest] “demand that we actively advance the internationally shared goals of freedom, openness, peace, prosperity and justice.” (A/53/PV.17, p.6) After the events of the last year, we are more convinced that the collective interest, our common interest, is my country’s national interest. The need to reform the United Nations is our common interest. Reforms should not only seek to make the United Nations more efficient; they should make it truly responsive to the new demands of international peace, security and development. The Security Council, with its wide mandate and leadership role, should be at the centre of change and reform itself. It should be truly representative, democratic, transparent and accountable. The use of the veto should be rationalized. The day may come when we shall have achieved consensus on the reforms that we wish for our Organization. The day may also come — and soon I hope — that the financial morass our Organization is in will have passed. But while these are critical to the very survival of the United Nations, the continued existence of our Organization would be far more meaningful if we could invest it with a new openness and greater trust. The Philippines believes that to achieve this, we must start at home, in our own regions. We must, in appropriate circumstances, be more open to hearing the views of others and offering our own, even on issues deemed too controversial. A new openness would reflect the boldness with which we should renew the promise of a new era. The United Nations proved its great worth in this century. Its continued success in the next will depend entirely on us, on the goals we hope to achieve with it, on 12 what we are willing to invest in it. After all, we are the United Nations.  In taking the floor on behalf of the delegation of the Republic of Benin, I would like first of all to express my heartiest congratulations to the entire Bureau of the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. I would also like to express my satisfaction at seeing the Foreign Minister of Namibia, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, presiding over the Assembly at this session, the last of the century and of the closing millennium. At a time when the United Nations more than ever is called upon to act in the interest of the peace and well- being of humankind, Benin takes pride in seeing a representative of Africa holding that important post. I would assure him of my delegation’s full cooperation and support, for it will be under his enlightened presidency that the Organization will stride forward into the twenty-first century. We see this felicitous and remarkable coincidence as a definite assurance of the success of the important debates we will be holding and a sign of hope that the decisions to be taken will so direct our actions as to ensure that the coming century is one of peace, progress and development, for the African continent in particular. Allow me at this stage to pay tribute to Mr. Didier Opertti, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Uruguay, for the outstanding work he did in the service of the Organization throughout the fifty-third session of the General Assembly. I wish also to pay a highly deserved tribute to our brother, Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, for the unstinting devotion that he has demonstrated since his election and for the undeniable successes that he has achieved for the United Nations in particularly difficult circumstances. I should like here to reaffirm the full support and confidence of the Government of Benin as we pursue the lofty and legitimate goal of giving the United Nations the means of tackling the challenges that await us on the threshold of the first century of the new millennium. I should like also to congratulate and warmly welcome the three new States Members of the United Nations — the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. This session of the General Assembly is beginning at a particularly important moment in the history of humankind, for, after a century of deeds and events fraught with all kinds of consequences, the entire international community is preparing to move forward into the first century of a new millennium. We who have been privileged to witness this twofold historical transition should not ignore the great responsibility that we have borne throughout the century that is now closing and the equal responsibility that we will have to shoulder throughout the one that is about to begin. The challenges that face us are many and range across all human areas of activity. It is our conviction that if we so desire, we can make the next century an era of peace, security, development, understanding and concord among peoples. In order to do this, we will have to promote and strengthen worldwide cooperation, in particular in tackling the serious problems that the century that is now ending will have bequeathed to the one that is now beginning. Combating poverty should, it seems to me, be one of our priorities, because poverty is a factor of destabilization and a source of conflict and war, particularly in Africa. The holding of the millennium summit in September 2000 will be a historic opportunity for us to strive to strengthen peace, security and stability, for which all peoples of the world yearn. We could hardly overemphasize the close relationship among development, peace, security, democracy and human rights, and we all share the responsibility of day by day translating these words into reality. We can overcome poverty. 30 The international community is in a position to put an end to the atrocities and the savagery that have been on the rise recently in all continents. To this end, it is essential for the process of revitalization, restructuring and democratization in the world Organization, begun under the authority of the Secretary-General, to be continued so as to enhance its effectiveness in carrying out the urgent tasks that it will face at the beginning of the third millennium. Benin is at peace within its borders, with its neighbours and with the whole of the international community. But we are seriously disturbed by the appalling conflicts that continue to devastate and destabilize our continent. We are ready to continue to support the efforts of Africa itself and those of the great Powers in the context of the prevention, settlement and sustainable management of conflicts. Here I wish to pay tribute to the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and certain subregional organizations such as the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the Southern African Development Community for their bold initiatives aimed at bringing peace and security to Africa. I have no wish to forget or to minimize the contribution of other countries, but I wish in particular to pay tribute here to the tremendous sacrifices made by the peoples of West Africa and in particular by the people of Nigeria in the context of the ECOWAS Monitoring Group (ECOMOG) to help the West African subregion to put an end to war and insecurity, which hamper development and economic progress. I wish also to welcome the bold resolutions adopted by the Heads of States at the OAU Summit in Algiers, as well as the initiatives of the subregional organizations in West Africa and in the Great Lakes region, which attest to strengthened political resolve to reverse the course of events in a positive and constructive direction. These endeavours deserve to be sustained and strengthened by international solidarity. The example of Kosovo is there to remind us of the key importance of prompt and determined action on the part of the international community in order to restore and maintain peace. The distressing events in East Timor are another eloquent example of this. Allow me in all honesty to state here that human rights are universal and indivisible. If we wish to build a united and peaceful international community, let us not introduce into the defence, protection and promotion of human rights any conditionalities or preferences, be they geographical, cultural, geostrategic or others. In this age of rapid globalization, we must realize that the risk of marginalizing the weakest economies and the most vulnerable peoples is very real; it is a mortal danger. Fortunately, there is still time to avert it. If we are to succeed, our vision for the twenty-first century and our prospects for the future must be clarified and strengthened by the effective implementation of the various plans and programmes of action adopted since the beginning of this decade within the framework of the United Nations system. In this context, the situation of the developing countries, the least developed countries in particular, deserves more attention from the international community, which should endeavour to create favourable conditions for those countries to develop. In this respect, we cannot evade the anguished question of the future of Africa on the threshold of the third millennium, particularly given the debt burden and the deterioration in the terms of trade. These are sad realities which are killing at least as many people as are dying from AIDS. Fortunately indeed, Africa can cease to be the continent of bad news. Today, it has the ability and the will to make it so. Throughout the decade that is now drawing to a close, the international community has repeatedly stated that Africa must be a priority. Mindful of the need for that continent to achieve economic progress, the United Nations has worked out appropriate strategies and embarked on specific development programmes. But none of those initiatives will have any impact on the development of the continent if African countries themselves, supported by their development partners, do not redouble their efforts to carry out the necessary reforms and mobilize the necessary resources. While we clearly reaffirm our own responsibility, we must also say that for Africa better economic performance necessarily involves a rapid and lasting solution to the problems caused by external debt; inputs of the new and additional financial resources required to meet the growing need for funding; transfers of new and appropriate technology; promotion of a genuine, open and fair system of international trade; and appropriate incentives for our efforts to diversify and modernize our 31 economies. What we need in this age of globalization is a genuine solidarity pact. This new partnership with Africa should set out to enable all African countries to enjoy the benefits of globalization. This implies mobilizing and pooling the efforts of the whole international community, inspired by the same vision of a common destiny and a new philosophy of sharing. That vision of development prompted the Government of Benin to host, in February 1999 in Cotonou, a conference of United Nations Development Programme Resident Representatives working in Africa to consider the problems of development in Africa in the coming millennium. The conference identified the major problems that African countries face at the close of the twentieth century: social and political upheaval; poverty; problems of access in meeting essential social needs; population pressure; the debt burden; and economic marginalization, among others. The conference also highlighted the assets and potential of the continent: significant natural and human resources; cultural wealth; a spirit of sharing; and a sense of solidarity. Accordingly, the conference recommended another approach for Africa's development, based on the promotion of peace and security within and between States; real integration of Africa into the world economy; and the creation of an African regional observatory for globalization. It would be regrettable if these highly lucid and relevant analyses and findings came to nothing because the United Nations Development Programme itself is stifled by a lack of resources. In keeping with those recommendations, Benin, together with several other African countries, has undertaken far-reaching political and economic reforms to improve the living and working conditions of its people, particularly those in rural areas. The measures include action to stabilize public finances, liberalize the economy, develop the private sector, stimulate economic growth, combat corruption and preserve social peace and political stability through the establishment of a State based on the rule of law that respects democratic principles and fundamental rights and freedoms. Against that background we are striving, tirelessly and resolutely, to ensure that the democratic process takes firm root in Benin. Our young democracy has just successfully completed an electoral process culminating in the renewal of Parliament before the deadline set by the Constitution. In a few months' time we will be holding local elections to elect mayors and councillors to help entrench democracy at the grass-roots level. However, despite these significant efforts and sacrifices, we know that our political and economic structures will continue to be fragile and vulnerable so long as poverty and disease continue to lay waste to our towns and countryside, so long as HIV/AIDS is not conquered or, at least, contained at the same levels as in Europe and America, and so long as insecurity and appalling internal and regional conflicts continue to undo the work of the African peoples and enrich a few arms manufacturers and traffickers. I should like to extend the recognition and gratitude of the people and Government of Benin to all its development partners, to the Powers which have realized that today poverty more than ever is a matter for all of us, wherever it may be found, and that violations of human rights involve us all wherever they may take place. I wish once again to express our thanks to all those who are assisting us in our activities aimed at making Benin, indeed Africa in general, a haven of peace, political stability and successful, integrated development. During its fifty-first session, the General Assembly accepted Benin's offer to hold the Fourth International Conference of New or Restored Democracies and encouraged it to do so, no doubt because of our efforts, which I have just outlined, to maintain peace, democracy and the constitutional rule of law. I am convinced that the fourth International Conference of New or Restored Democracies — the first that Africa will have the honour and privilege of hosting, following the conferences held in the Philippines, Nicaragua and Romania — will be an opportunity for all the friends of Africa — indeed, all the friends of democracy — to pool their experience and to work together to consolidate a political system that, 32 unfortunately, is not yet the most widespread of phenomena. The Cotonou conference, scheduled for early December 2000, can have significance and impact only if all democrats agree to make a sincere contribution; this would enable democracy all over the world to take a crucial qualitative leap forward. For this reason, I fervently appeal to all those of goodwill, and to all development partners eager that democracy, the rule of law and good governance should be solidly established in every one of our States and on all continents, to lend their material and financial support and their experience to the preparation, organization and convening of the Cotonou conference. We earnestly hope that the Cotonou conference will enable us to build on existing achievements in the maintenance of international peace and security. Peace, security and sustainable human development are the themes that my delegation would like to see as the banner of this session of the General Assembly, the last before the year 2000: peace above all, so that the founding cry of this Organization, “never again”, may in the new millennium become a reality for all peoples and for all individuals.   I am pleased to have this opportunity, the first since my assumption of the presidency of Guyana, to share with the Assembly some issues of interest and concern to the Group of 77, which Guyana now has the honour to chair. A mere three months remain before mankind enters a new millennium filled with great hopes. Whether those hopes are realized will depend largely on the decisions we take, as an organization of united peoples, on how we collectively face the future. This fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly therefore represents a crucial turning point where we can follow either the high road to enlightened multilateralism or the low road leading to narrow self-interest. I am confident that the Assembly will not fail to take the right direction. As the Foreign Minister of Namibia, Mr. President, you have given long and distinguished service to your country, which, after a bitter struggle against apartheid rule, stands as an independent and proud member of the family of nations. On behalf of the Group of 77, I salute Namibia and offer to you personally our warmest congratulations and good wishes for a successful Assembly. To your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti of Uruguay, we offer our sincere appreciation for the guidance provided to the Assembly over the past year. A warm welcome is also extended to the three new members of the United Nations — the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. And to our Secretary-General I wish to convey our gratitude for his sustained stewardship of the Secretariat, and more particularly for his report on the Organization's work. The challenges we must address this year are formidable. Our world continues to be plagued by a multiplicity of conflicts, both old and new, inter-State and intra-State, that have not only imperilled global peace and security but also sap our economic and social vitality. Whether in Afghanistan, Kosovo, the Middle East or the Great Lakes region of Africa — to name just a few conflict zones — a heavy toll is being exacted on human life and development. Equally disturbing is the apparent inability of the world community to contain this increase in tensions and conflicts. The world Organization is continuously challenged by the outbreak of internecine strife in one country after another. Without a clear strategy, the United Nations can do no more than muddle through these crises in the hope that the warring factions will eventually see the virtues of peace. In these distressing circumstances, it is not only the parties to the conflict that are losers but also the international community. As a result of the increasing claims for peacemaking and peacekeeping operations, developing countries are deprived of much needed development resources and are politically weakened. Gradually the United Nations must move forward into the area of peace-building to obviate recidivism and to reconstruct shattered societies. By helping to strengthen democracy, government institutions and the rule of law, as well as rebuilding the foundations for long-term development, the Organization can help post-conflict States to rebuild themselves. The time may have come to revisit the United Nations Agenda for Peace, as well as its Agenda for Development, to see where deficiencies lie and what could be done to remedy them. The time has also come to strengthen the Security Council, the organ primarily responsible for the maintenance of international peace and security, so that it may become more democratic, representative and credible. Of course, the United Nations cannot do what the parties to conflict are not prepared to do. Without a true commitment to peace by all involved there can be scant prospect of any lasting settlement. As we have seen from recent developments in the Middle East, the parties involved must show a strong will to resolve the conflict through peaceful means. Only then can the United Nations, using the instruments provided by its Charter, serve to facilitate negotiations for a satisfactory outcome. Accompanying these threats to international security and stability are strong economic and social forces which impact negatively on our countries. While globalization and trade liberalization have benefited strong economies, they have also exposed weaker States to marginalization from the world economy. By opening the floodgates of trade and finance, globalization has invariably wrought havoc on small and weak economies, which can do precious little to withstand its impact. Economic and social misery have followed in its wake, exposing the 12 particular vulnerabilities of small developing countries, many of which are dependent on a single agricultural crop — like bananas or sugar — for the livelihood of their peoples. At the regional meetings which have been held thus far in preparation for the tenth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD X) caution has been sounded against the worst excesses of trade liberalization. Having benefited from the Tokyo and Uruguay Rounds, the industrialized countries are anxious to hold further negotiations — the mother of all rounds — for free trade in the next millennium. Theoretically, developing countries can also gain from increased liberalization. However, since they are for the most part too weak to take advantage of the new opportunities, they run the risk of greater marginalization and, indeed, elimination from the market place. Fear of this eventuality is based not on uninformed speculation, but on the harsh reality of experience. Past negotiating rounds have yielded significant concessions to developed economies, while offering relatively little to developing countries in terms of opening up markets for their own products. At bottom, the problem is one of an imbalance in negotiating strength of its contracting parties, resulting in more favourable outcomes for the strongest. Yet the developing countries are being urged to enter into a new round of negotiations, the millennium round, the result of which is likely to be no different from that of the past unless its agenda is balanced by issues of concern to the developing countries. To be able to enter the global marketplace, developing countries should be assisted in the strengthening of their productive capacities and in widening their access to export markets. They need to be assured of stabilization in the international financial and monetary system in order to avoid the hazards of currency fluctuations. Equally important, given the vast disparity which exists in the economic capacities of countries, special and differential treatment should be granted to developing countries in accordance with the principles outlined in part IV of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and the GATT legislative clause of 1971. Special consideration will have to be given to Africa, the least developed countries and structurally weak economies, in particular the small island developing States, which are seriously disadvantaged in the area of trade. The special session to review the Programme of Action with regard to the sustainable development of small island developing States, which will be held here in just a matter of days, and the summit of the least developed countries scheduled for the year 2001 should serve to generate new initiatives to help these vulnerable States. However, to benefit from the international trading system developing countries must receive significant debt relief and the necessary official development assistance to boost the overall productive capability. Consequently, in the face of rampant globalization, it is imperative that the international community should come together to create a modern development vision and strategy aimed at bridging the dangerous division which now separates the prosperous from the poor nations. This new approach should be based on an international consensus on development and on the rights and obligations of the partners. As the preparations undertaken this year for the review of the summits held in Beijing, Cairo and Copenhagen have shown, there is an increasing number of people, the majority of them women and children, living under adverse conditions caused by poverty. Despite great strides in the fields of health and education in the developed world, many developing countries continue to be plagued by unequal and inadequate access to education and health care, high infant and maternal mortality, as well as lack of access to safe drinking water and proper sanitation. Indeed, low levels of health have inhibited the achievement of socially and economically productive lives, not to mention the devastating social and economic impact of the HIV/AIDS pandemic, as well as malaria, on a number of developing countries, particularly in Africa. The Cologne initiative to expand the scope and provision of relief for the heavily indebted poor countries was a welcome step forward. Unfortunately, however, it does not go far enough to alleviate the debt burden which the developing countries still bear. Nothing short of the cancellation of some of these countries' debts will be sufficient to improve their circumstances to the point where they can be active participants in the world economy. The situation of many low-income countries has been made even more acute by the rapid decline of official development assistance in the wake of globalization's spread and over reliance on the market to promote development. The financing of development must therefore be placed on a more sound and predictable basis. The Group of 77 therefore attaches the greatest importance to the 13 holding of a high-level conference by the year 2001 to address this pressing issue. We believe that if Member States can address all aspects of the problem — particularly those identified in the Secretary-General's report on financing for development — we may yet find solutions that are acceptable and effective. Crucial to the successful outcome of the conference, however, is a general acceptance of a more enlightened approach to international development cooperation based on a genuine concept of interdependence and partnership. Indeed, there is an acute need for a new global agenda with the objective of putting a human face on the marketplace. Policies aimed merely at creating unsustainable social safety nets are hardly lasting solutions. The root causes of the structural and endemic problems of the developing countries, which ultimately lead to global instability, must be addressed. For their part, the developing countries which constitute the Group of 77 are committed to the search for ways and means by which we can accelerate the development process. Even before the conference on financing for development, we shall meet in Havana, Cuba, next year for the first ever South summit. The Summit is a long-cherished idea whose time has finally come. It will allow the South a special opportunity to examine the impact which globalization continues to have on developing countries, as well as the policies and strategies needed to harness the process and make it more amenable to control. In this context, North-South relations must be reviewed to see how they may be enhanced and put on a new basis for mutual trust and advantage. Understandably, the central focus of the South Summit must be the strengthening of the unity and solidarity of the Group of 77 and the identification of concrete initiatives to promote practical cooperation between members. We have also agreed to devote our attention to the promulgation of knowledge and technology in order, hopefully, to achieve a quantum leap towards our development. This, after all, is an area in which the South can boast of remarkable advances and of many centres of excellence that can be utilized for the dissemination of skills and technology among the countries of the Group of 77. The North can, of course, do much to facilitate these exchanges by providing requisite financing and supplying appropriate technology and knowledge that would make the developing countries more self-reliant and at the same time more competitive in the world economy. Coming, as it does, in the early months of the new millennium, the South summit will certainly provide an indication of the direction for the future. In Havana we hope to have in attendance our developed partners, which significantly, are usually present at all of our important deliberations as observers. Also expected to participate in the event are other key players in the development process, such as our non-governmental organizations and representatives of the private sector. Together, through an interactive dialogue, we hope to forge a programme of action which will serve as a catalyst for the development of our countries and our peoples. Indeed, if given the chance, the South summit, I dare say, will prove to be an inspiration for the Millennium Assembly and for a new compact on human development for the twenty-first century. Speaking for Guyana, I wish to reaffirm our Government's intention to continue working for the creation of a new global human order aimed at the eradication of poverty and the establishment of a just and more humane system of international relations. Conceived by our late President Cheddi Jagan, whose entire life was dedicated to empowering the poor and the weak — not only in his native Guyana, but throughout the world — the outlines of this new order have been presented at major international forums, including the World Summit for Social Development, which was held in 1995 in Denmark. All 14 heads of Government of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), along with other world leaders and eminent personalities, have declared their full support for the proposal and their commitment to its widest promulgation. We will therefore seek at this session to advance it for further consideration. Although much is being made of the dawning of the millennium, it is obviously too much to expect that it will bring solutions to all of the world's problems. It can provide, however, an auspicious opportunity for the international community to reflect upon the past achievements, its present challenges and future aspirations. With a firm sense of purpose and resolve, let us use this occasion to create a brave new world in which all our peoples may hope to live in peace — free from fear, poverty and want.  First, I wish to express my very great pleasure at speaking for the first time in this world forum as head of State and at greeting its members on behalf of the people of Venezuela and my Government, and particularly at speaking at this session of the General Assembly, the last of this century and millennium, which, for us, adds special meaning to the event. My presence here also affords me an opportunity to express some ideas on the times and circumstances in which we are now living, all of us worldwide but also, and a little more specifically, about times and circumstances in my own country. These are times and circumstances, Mr. President and members, which of course we share with you. A few years ago, when the Berlin Wall fell, I think someone said that peace had broken out. I truly believe that that expression covers a series of phenomena which began to surface at that time and subsequently evolved and developed to become part of the global scenario. In my view, this rapid emergence of phenomena, simultaneously all round the world, each of them with so many distinguishing characteristics, has made it more difficult to understand, appreciate and realistically perceive what is actually happening in the world today. Many analysts of that time spoke of quantum leaps. I believe that a quantum leap is indeed under way; there is an ongoing process of universal change, mutation even. I also believe that we must sharpen our ability to analyse and observe this phenomenon — open conflicts, resurgent nationalisms, racial and religious conflicts — which are occurring in a world that is undergoing processes of fusion while at the same time undergoing dangerous and alarming processes of fission. We are entering the new century with these signs around us which at one and the same time are cause for concern and reason for optimism at the changes unfolding. Actually, there are many praiseworthy things about the century that is closing, but there are also many things worthy of condemnation and from which we should learn our lesson so that they do not recur. Within that process of universal change, there is a country small in size, a nearby country — Venezuela — that faces its own changes; a country that is undertaking its own irrevocable and necessary changes; a country that is being reborn from its own ashes; a country that is once again raising the flag of true, authentic democracy. I shall speak a few words here about that country, my country, our country, your country: Venezuela. Venezuela, blessed by the hand of God; Venezuela, in the very north with an outstanding geographic location; Venezuela, full of incalculable natural wealth; Venezuela, which has one of the world’s largest oil reserves and mineral resources of all kinds, such as gold, diamonds, bauxite and iron ore; Venezuela, which has water; Venezuela, which has fertile soil; Venezuela, which has scarcely 20 million inhabitants for almost 1 million square kilometres. But 80 per cent of the inhabitants of this wealth-filled country are poor. For many years it was said of Venezuela that it was a model of democracy in the world and in Latin America. However, today it is undergoing a process of profound change, a crisis unprecedented in our history — a moral crisis, an economic crisis, a political crisis, a social crisis — which has brought it to dangerous extremes, with explosive forces that have been building for decades. Even so, in Venezuela we have found a peaceful way out of the morass, the tragedy. We have discovered a way that is fully democratic. We have encouraged changes in Venezuela towards respect for human rights, as is right and proper, because, however tragic the situation, however urgent the need for change, never, in our view, should human rights, respect for freedom of expression, respect for the intrinsic values of the individual, respect for freedom of the press and respect for freedom of thought be set aside. The Venezuelan people has arisen from its own ashes. I should also like to add — and you, Mr. President, and members undoubtedly know this — that the Venezuelan people is a people with a great historical legacy: it is the birthplace of Simón Bol'var, the Liberator, one of the greats of the millennium. Venezuela carries in its essence the seed of democracy, of fraternity and solidarity. We must therefore acknowledge the ability of Venezuelan people, which we represent here in this Assembly, to find peaceful and democratic solutions to a profound crisis which in other places and other eras, would have given rise to the violent and regrettable acts that have submerged many peoples in fratricidal conflict for years and even decades at a time. We know that the world has had a great deal of news about Venezuela in recent months, some of it a little disturbing as a result of the confusion and speed of the changes. I thank representatives for allowing me a few minutes to take the opportunity to assure the entire world that in Venezuela there was respect, is respect and will continue to be respect for a democratic process which emanates from the will of the people. For example, last December there were elections in Venezuela, which produced a positive result for democracy. We won the elections with almost 60 per cent of the popular vote. Subsequently, on 2 February this year, the very day that we arrived at the Government Palace, we did something which had never before happened in my country: we called for a national referendum. In that referendum, held on 25 April, the country voted for the electoral path leading to a constituent assembly. Ninety- two per cent said “Yes”, and on 25 July there were open elections, in which all political and social sectors participated, with absolute freedom of expression, freedom of criticism and freedom of the press, the likes of which had never occurred in my country. The National Constituent Assembly that resulted from that electoral process consists of 131 Venezuelan men and women, representing the broadest segments of society, including indigenous peoples, because for the first time in Venezuela's history a group of aborigines represent the indigenous peoples of Venezuela in the great Assembly. The Assembly members have been working together for a month and a half on a new national constitution in a mechanism of cooperation. The entire country is promoting progress towards this new Constitution; for the sake of the democracy we are defending and advocating, it will be approved only by the country. It will not enter into force until it is approved by the Venezuelans in a new referendum, which we hope will be held in November, or at the latest in December. In other words, when the new century dawns next year Venezuela will have a new political project, a fundamental new charter as the foundation of the new Republic and of truly legitimate executive power governing by democracy — as Abraham Lincoln said, for 2 the people and by the people. We will have a genuine judicial power, which we had lost in the past few years owing to corruption. This judicial power will administer justice. We rely on true legislative power to respond to the calls and needs of the Venezuelan people. We also propose the establishment of a fourth power — moral power — to combat corruption, the mother of all Venezuelan crises of recent years, and to fight for education, especially for children. We further propose an electoral power to achieve a balance of power. There will be a division of powers, particularly legitimate powers, with the profound popular content of true democracy. We are also promoting a new economic model for Venezuela. For 20 years we experienced a terrible crisis that produced the breakdown of a country, the breakdown of a model. We are now promoting a humanistic, productive, competitive and diversified economic model, based on the great potential of our country and incorporating the world currents of a new international economic order, with greater justice and a human face, which will facilitate satisfying the needs of the human being. This must be one of the fundamental goals of any economic process. In just over six months we have been able to come here to tell the world of our successes — small successes, but they presage what is going to happen in Venezuela. We have undertaken an economic revitalization, respecting all economic freedoms. In a healthy coexistence between the State and the market, we have been gaining ground in the macroeconomic area. We have started to bring down inflation; maintained our international reserves; helped raise the price of a barrel of oil, in cooperation with the other oil-producing countries; and brought about an exchange balance. We have also been revitalizing some production sectors, and we are calling on global investors to invest in various petrochemical, gas, touristic, industrial and agricultural projects and enterprises. We are thus building a new economic model. We are also building a new society based on public morality in respect of human rights. I shall give an example, small, but one which says a lot about what is happening in Venezuela in terms of the social order. Barely three days ago the 1999-2000 school year began. This year the school matriculation — that is, the number of students in public schools — increased by 25 per cent. As a result of a model of privatization of education, and of the poverty that has been invading the social strata, many children and young people did not go to school; they could not pay the fees, nor could they pay for school supplies. This year we have opened up the schools and we have been repairing them. Now we are very happy to tell the world that in just six months the number of children and young people starting a new school year has increased by 25 per cent. Furthermore, attention to education has gone beyond being one of the principal national priorities; it is now a matter of States. The same can be said of health. We have activated a special plan which we call “Project Bolivar 2000”. For six months we have been dealing with Venezuelans' greatest needs, such as health, road repairs and opening ways of penetration and activation of some sectors of microenterprises. We have set up a people's bank to provide microcredit especially to bring about the recovery of the economy, the microeconomy. We have created a unique social fund to promote solutions basically for health and education. As can be seen, we are promoting a genuine process of transition: politically, socially, economically and, above all, ethically. A new Venezuela is being born, born to present itself to the world free and sovereign, ready to take up firmly the flags of a new world, a fairer world. We are in solidarity with the struggles of the world. The world of the century to come must be much better than the world of the twentieth century which is ending. We call out for justice for the peoples of the third world, for equality and human development. We appeal for the integration of peoples and for peace. Only a country revitalized from within can be incorporated by its own strength into the international relations of a modern world, such as the world which is dawning. In this part of South America, Venezuela is being reborn and offering the world its heart, its arms of integration. I give a special salute to all the peoples of the Latin American continent and the Caribbean, Central America, North America, Asia, Africa, Europe and Oceania. We must continue together, with a new sense of brotherhood, to struggle for a better world. In this my first statement to the General Assembly, in the last session of the century, when we are preparing for the Millennium Assembly, I should like to congratulate you, Mr. President, the Secretary-General and all the world representatives gathered here at the United Nations, because we are aware of the great effort being made to reform and perfect the machinery to achieve peace, brotherhood and solidarity in a world that 3 is, as I said at the beginning, undergoing profound change. These words come from my heart and go out to the entire world in the name of a people who are themselves being reborn — the Venezuelan people — with our best wishes that each day we may find greater strength and come closer to attaining — as I said before — the path to peace, brotherhood, development, justice and self- determination. Let us not say as someone else has said that peace has broken out. Rather, let us say that in the next few years we may all be able to proclaim loudly that peace, democracy and development have triumphed. I send a warm embrace to you all on behalf of the people of Simon Bolivar, the people of Venezuela. Mr. President, it gives me pleasure to extend to you, on behalf of the delegation of the United Arab Emirates, my congratulations on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. I am confident that your experience, diplomatic skills and political ability will contribute effectively and positively to the success of the session’s proceedings. I should also like to express my thanks to your predecessor, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Uruguay, Mr. Didier Opertti, for the prudent manner in which he directed the work of the previous session. I avail myself of this opportunity to express our gratitude to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his efforts in strengthening the role of the United Nations in the maintenance of international peace and security. We welcome the admission of the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga to membership in the United Nations, which strengthens its universality. As this session convenes on the eve of the third millennium, the international environment remains plagued by a multitude of problems and challenges, the most salient of which are manifest in the ever-increasing growth of the phenomena of poverty, environmental pollution, armed conflicts, ethnic and religious cleansing, the race to acquire proscribed weapons, organized crime, 34 drugs and international terrorism in its various forms and manifestations. Dealing with such global problems and phenomena requires that all States adhere to the Charter of the United Nations, respect international law and work on strengthening the mechanisms for cooperation among nations, including the completion of the structural reforms in the United Nations, particularly in the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council. In this connection, we express our appreciation for the positive role played by the specialized agencies and organizations of the United Nations in providing emergency humanitarian and development assistance to the many peoples affected by the consequences of conflicts and by natural and other disasters. The course of political events and the wars that raged in the Arab Gulf region in the past two decades, as well as their political, economic and social implications, have more than ever before reinforced the conviction of the members of the Gulf Cooperation Council of the importance of consolidating the bonds of bilateral and multilateral cooperation between the States of the region and the other members of the international community. This must be based on the principles of good neighbourliness, confidence-building measures, peaceful coexistence, non- intervention in the internal affairs of countries, mutual respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States, renunciation of the threat or use of force and the settlement of existing disputes through dialogue and peaceful means. In addition regional and international cooperation and the strengthening of national capabilities must be reinforced and encouraged, particularly in the fields of social, economic, cultural and human development. It is this conviction that underlies the position of the members of the Gulf Cooperation Council in providing various forms of humanitarian and development assistance to the many countries of the third world that have been affected by wars, conflicts and natural disasters, the most recent of which was the allocation of $400 million for financing reconstruction and development in the earthquake- stricken areas of Turkey. The continued occupation by the Islamic Republic of Iran of three United Arab Emirates islands, Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa, for almost 29 years stands out in stark contrast not only to the clearly peaceful attitudes adopted by the States of the Gulf Cooperation Council, but also reveals the true intentions of Iran, which persists in violating the territorial integrity of the United Arab Emirates. We had hoped that the Iranian political discourse on this issue would be translated into practical and positive steps in response to the peaceful initiatives of our Head of State, His Highness Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al-Nahyan. Those initiatives, which had met with the support and backing of all friendly and fraternal States, called for either entering into serious bilateral negotiations, with transparent intentions, or accepting the submission of the dispute to the International Court of Justice. We had also welcomed the establishment of a three- member ministerial committee by the Gulf Cooperation Council to be charged with developing a mechanism for the start of serious negotiations between the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran. The underlying hope is that a peaceful, just and lasting settlement be reached, one that would bring to an end the Iranian occupation of our three islands. It is truly regrettable that the consecutive Iranian Governments, rather than dealing with our peaceful initiatives in a spirit of responsibility and political will, have deliberately resorted to a policy of escalation and provocation. They have done so by carrying out naval and aerial military manoeuvres, by establishing civilian and military installations on our occupied islands, and by relentlessly seeking to change their demographic, legal and historical characteristics. The aim is to consolidate the Iranian occupation of these islands and to establish a fait accompli by force. Such actions represent a direct threat to regional and international security and stability. We consider these Iranian excesses null and void, with no legal validity or basis in the rules of international law or in the Charter of the United Nations or that of the Organization of the Islamic Conference. They are also inconsistent with the documented fact that, historically and legally, these three islands are an integral part of the territorial sovereignty of the United Arab Emirates, regardless of the duration of their occupation. The security of the Arab Gulf is the collective and joint responsibility of the States of the region. Therefore we stress the importance of promoting a political and diplomatic dialogue as well as cooperation between those States and of channelling their wealth and human and natural resources towards achieving the desired economic and social development for their peoples. 35 In this context, we call upon the Iraqi Government to complete its implementation of the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, in particular those relating to the fate, whereabouts and release of Kuwaiti nationals and citizens of other countries who are detained or held as prisoners of war by Iraq. This is in addition to the return of Kuwaiti property, documents and archives, an act that would contribute to Iraq's resuming its natural role at the regional and international levels. The inhumane conditions visited upon the Iraqi people make it incumbent upon all of us to seek an early end to their suffering. We therefore call upon the Security Council, and in particular its permanent members, to reach consensus on the draft projects before it that would lead to the full implementation of all its resolutions and to lifting the international economic sanctions imposed on Iraq while emphasizing the importance of respect for its sovereignty and territorial integrity. Proceeding from its belief in the need to achieve a just and comprehensive peace in the Middle East based on the principle of land for peace and on the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, the United Arab Emirates welcomes the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum and the preliminary contacts between the Palestinian and Israeli sides regarding the final status negotiations, which are to deal with the issues of Jerusalem, settlements, refugees and borders. We attach great importance to the political developments that will lead to the realization of the objectives and aspirations on which the peace process is based — namely, the achievement of a peaceful, just and lasting settlement of the question of Palestine and of the Middle East problem. We call upon the Israeli Government to implement fully and scrupulously, and without further delay or obstructions, all of the obligations and commitments it has assumed within the framework of these agreements. I refer in particular to those relating to halting settlement activities and policies in various parts of occupied Palestinian land and other occupied Arab territories, including Jerusalem, and to the return of Palestinian refugees in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the international community and the Fourth Geneva Convention. In applauding the positive role played by the United States of America in reviving the peace process, we express the hope that further efforts will be made by the co- sponsors of the process and by the members of the European Union and other influential States to persuade the Israeli Government to fulfil its historical, political and legal obligations that are based on the principles of international law and the principle of land for peace. This would restore to the Palestinian people their legitimate rights and would enable them to exercise self- determination and establish their own independent state in Palestine, with Jerusalem as its capital. We also reiterate our full and unqualified support for the position of Lebanon and demand that the Government of Israel implement Security Council resolution 425 (1978). That resolution calls for the Israeli forces to withdraw, without any preconditions, from southern Lebanon and from the West Bekaa Valley, and to resume negotiations on the Syrian and Lebanese tracks at the point where they were cut off. The aim is to ensure a complete Israeli withdrawal from the Syrian Arab Golan Heights to the line of 4 June 1967, in accordance with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). The acquisition and possession of weapons of mass destruction, especially nuclear weapons, are contrary to the objectives and recommendations unanimously adopted by members of the international community at the 1995 Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). This not only contributes to the escalation of the proscribed arms race and the heightening of tensions, but also disrupts the security balance at the regional and international levels. Consonant with its position that favours the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones throughout the world, the United Arab Emirates emphasizes the importance and necessity of establishing a zone free from weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear weapons, in the region of the Middle East and the Arabian Gulf. It renews its call to the international community to exert greater efforts, demanding that Israel accede to the NPT and place all of its nuclear facilities under the safeguards regime of the International Atomic Energy Agency, in order to ensure peace and security in the region and the attainment of the desired economic and social development. The member States of the Gulf Cooperation Council followed with keen interest the recent developments in East Timor and the pressures placed on the Republic of Indonesia despite its acceptance of the results of the referendum in that territory. In this connection, we welcome the positive stance of the Indonesian Government, especially its readiness to provide necessary 36 support for the peaceful transfer of authority in that territory, in cooperation with the United Nations. We therefore stress the importance of respecting the territorial integrity of the Republic of Indonesia in order to restore security and stability in that region. The continuing state of conflict between our two friends, India and Pakistan, over the question of Kashmir, is a source of profound concern to us because it constitutes a direct threat to regional and global security and stability. We therefore invite both Governments to exercise a policy of self-restraint and to resort to dialogue and peaceful negotiations in settling their differences, in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, the rules and regulations of international law and the provisions of the recent Lahore accord. We also support all efforts designed to bring about peaceful resolutions of the conflicts in South-East Asia and the Korean peninsula. The international community recently followed the developments of the deplorable events to which the people of Kosovo, particularly the Muslims, were subjected. These events included ethnic and religious cleansing, population displacements and other heinous crimes by Yugoslav and Serbian forces, in blatant violation of international humanitarian law. The United Arab Emirates, acting on high-level instructions from an informed leadership, was one of the first countries to participate in the international relief operation. Our armed forces, together with the Red Crescent Society and other humanitarian organizations, provided humanitarian, medical, food and development assistance to the people of Kosovo. In addition, military troops from the Emirates participated in the United Nations peacekeeping operation in Kosovo, helping to ensure the return of the refugees to their homes and land, maintain internal security and initiate and develop vital projects such as schools, roads and hospitals. It is essential for international efforts to continue in order to provide the people of Kosovo with security and humanitarian guarantees and enable them to achieve their legitimate aspirations. It is also in the interest of establishing peace and security in the Balkans. Despite the positive initiatives by the United Nations, particularly the Security Council, and by the Organization of African Unity to contain conflicts, resolve the internal and regional security problems which plague certain States in Africa and promote national reconciliation between the various political factions, conditions there remain, regrettably unstable. We therefore call upon the States concerned to assume their historic and political responsibilities and resolve their problems by peaceful means so as to enable the peoples of Africa to achieve their aspirations for peace and sustainable development. In this context, we should like to reiterate that the sanctions imposed on Libya must be lifted now that it has implemented the Security Council resolutions in respect of the Lockerbie issue. Notwithstanding the relatively positive changes in international economic relations, the liberalization of world trade and multilateral cooperation in the fields of development, finance and trade, the economic and social gap between developed and developing countries is still widening. The consequences of the financial crises in the countries of South-East Asia and elsewhere continue to be felt: they have contributed to the decline in economic growth in many States. Dealing with these and other similar dysequilibria will require a comprehensive and objective assessment of financial, investment, customs tariff and trade arrangements with a view to initiating North-South and South-South dialogue to promote mutually beneficial cooperation and coordination. In this connection, the relevant international and regional development institutions have an important role to play in ensuring the stability of the world economic and financial order, a continued flow of development assistance from developed to developing countries and cancellation of the poorest countries debts. Cooperation at the bilateral, regional and subregional levels is also a positive step towards stabilizing international economic relations and, if carried out on the basis of complementarity, equality and justice, should enable the developing countries to become effective participants and should ensure regional and international security and stability. In conclusion, we express the hope that the preparatory meetings for the Millennium Assembly in 2000 will have a positive outcome, leading to the fulfilment of our countries’ and peoples’ aspirations for peace, security and sustainable development.  At the outset, I wish to greet the President of the General Assembly, His Excellency Theo-Ben Gurirab, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Namibia, whom I congratulate on his election and offer all the cooperation of the delegation of Paraguay in his work. In greeting Secretary-General Kofi Annan, I congratulate him on his excellent work for the Organization and reaffirm the full support of the Republic of Paraguay for his efforts on behalf of world peace. At the same time, the delegation of Paraguay wishes to welcome the Republics of Kiribati and Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga to membership of the United Nations. We are convinced that their work will contribute to international peace and development and that their presence among us is further evidence of the universalization foreseen under the Charter. This regular session of the General Assembly finds Paraguay at a crucial moment in its political life and for its expectations for economic and social development. The Paraguayans have very recently overcome internal destabilization. However, a rapid, broad and heroic mobilization of the citizenry, in particular the members of Parliament, youth, workers and peasants, formed an impenetrable barrier against an attempt to foment a constitutional collapse and provided support for the resistance to this attack on democracy. As a result of the crisis of March 1999, the gravity and importance of which caused it to be followed by the media throughout the world, a Government of national unity was established in the framework of the National Constitution. That Government, which I have the honour to represent before this Assembly, is composed of all political parties through democratically elected parliamentarians. Today, it faces the great challenge of 5 pulling Paraguay out of chronic economic stagnation and great social inequity. In various international forums, and yet again in this arena of brotherhood among the States of the world, Paraguay appeals for the solidarity and cooperation of the multilateral and bilateral organizations in carrying out its economic reactivation programme and the implementation of social and anti-poverty policies. This activity will be the basis and guarantee of the survival of our democracy. In this context, for the first time in my country's recent history, the political parties, the authorities of the State and the representatives of civil society have agreed in a patriotic consensus on policies and strategies to rechannel economic growth, alleviate poverty, combat social exclusion and achieve well-being for our people. Democracy, as an ideal form of organization and coexistence, will be insured for history by sustainable development, which will guarantee the material well-being of the impoverished majority. In this respect, my country has subscribed to and fully supports the principles, objectives and measures adopted at the United Nations Conferences on social development, population and development, and women. We are unswervingly committed to political democracy because we know that we must consolidate it with justice, social equity, economic growth and sustainable development. My Government is firmly decided to participate and act jointly with other countries of the world at all levels to enhance natural resources and preserve the environment as an irreplaceable framework for human development. In a significant response to the requirements of the Cairo Conference, Paraguay has adopted a national plan and a Council for Reproductive Health. With the establishment of the Women's Secretariat, we have strengthened women's presence in government and made available a programme for women's equality in education. This measure has allowed us to incorporate gender equality into educational reform and to adopt a women's equal-opportunity plan. We have attributed equal importance to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and to the commitments made at the Children's Summit. In this respect, the Executive Power has submitted a code for minor's for parliamentary approval. Clearly, these important steps have had a positive effect. Paraguay today, according to the most recent report of the United Nations Development Programme, is in a comparatively improved position that favours its human development indicators. The dynamic of today's world is an unavoidable challenge demanding not only domestic democratic cooperation, but also negotiations that will raise countries to a level of development at which they can work with other regional and multilateral partners. Convinced of this, Paraguay, freely and in full sovereignty, has decided to join the great Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR) project, a regional experiment that has proved to be a useful instrument for addressing the challenges of an ever-changing world economy. Thus, we look forward to the opening of negotiations to establish a free-trade zone between MERCOSUR and the European Union. Similarly, Paraguay is actively participating in the ambitious Free Trade Area of the Americas, an undertaking that will have enormous repercussions for the American continent. In its decisive struggle for comprehensive progress, my country is participating with renewed hope and great faith in the ideals that formed the basis for the establishment and existence of the United Nations. We therefore reaffirm our full commitment to the principles of multilateralism, equal sovereignty of States and respect for the legal order that support the essential principles of the Organization. In this respect, Paraguay is examining the process of change and the strengthening of this Organization. We will support all efforts to improve its efficiency and operational capacity to maintain peace and contribute to the human development of all peoples. Nevertheless, my country believes that the structure of the United Nations must be made less costly and more efficient. The Organization should strengthen the Economic and Social Council, continue to streamline the Secretariat and reduce the overlap of its specialized agencies, through efficient rationalization of the flow of resources for cooperation for sustainable development. Given the challenges facing the United Nations, we attach considerable importance to the adoption of measures to ensure the good financial functioning of its organs, and we therefore urge Member States, particularly the most developed, to meet their financial obligations as an essential prerequisite for the reform of the Organization. 6 Similarly, the Government of my country does not consider that the present composition of the Security Council reflects the presence of all the main actors of the international community, nor that its numbers are in proportion to the totality of Members. Only an increase in the number of permanent and non-permanent Members will ensure more equitable participation within the Security Council and, thus the necessary political balance. In that respect, the progressive process of international democratization must conclude with the elimination of the right of veto of its permanent members. Therefore, Paraguay supports the aspiration of Latin America and other continents to have greater representation in the Council, where the presence of Brazil as a permanent member, could represent the great interests of our region. Paraguay is convinced that maintaining international peace and security must continue to be one of the priorities of the United Nations, in particular in those areas of conflict where its intervention can contribute decisively to stabilizing the situation on the ground and achieving peace. As proof of its commitment to these noble purposes, the Government of Paraguay has officially offered the Secretary-General the participation of members of its armed forces in United Nations peacekeeping operations, a decision which will contribute to this noble humanitarian purpose. To that end, a battalion of elite officers of the Paraguay army is receiving special training to participate in those operations, in accordance with the memorandum of understanding to be signed between the Republic of Paraguay and the United Nations. However, we truly believe that the best guarantee of peace, together with the monitoring of human rights and equal opportunity for development, is to reduce armaments progressively and in a sustained manner until they are totally eliminated. Paraguay strongly condemns terrorism in all its forms, regarding it as one of the most serious threats to our societies. In that respect, we have supported all the United Nations initiatives to counteract this scourge, making clear our resolve to prevent it, combat it and eliminate it. It is timely to recall that my country has itself suffered from the effects of this terrible scourge; in this very year we have suffered the horrendous assassination of the Vice-President of the Republic, Luis Mar'a Argaña. I take this opportunity for the President of the Republic of Paraguay to thank the General Assembly for the tribute which was paid to him. Paraguay will not cease its struggle to eradicate terrorist bands, which are alien to our tradition and our history. With regard to other scourges which afflict our societies, I must emphasize with great satisfaction the efforts which my country is making in the crusade against illicit drug-trafficking and related crimes, a struggle which is carried out with the greatest cooperation. The twentieth special session of the United Nations, on the question of drugs, held in New York in June 1998, conveyed in its decisions that spirit, which should lead us inexorably to the final destruction of the merchants of death, a victory which will be achieved with the shared responsibility of the nations committed to the crusade. These purposes will be achieved with the faithful fulfilment of the commitments undertaken with regard to human rights and fundamental freedoms. In this respect, my country has followed the recommendations of the United Nations with regard to signing, adhering to and ratifying those commitments, whose purpose it is to strengthen the framework for the promotion and protection of the rights of the individual. International legal instruments in this regard form part of the law in the Republic of Paraguay. For that reason, my Government accepts verification and monitoring by organizations concerned with the protection of human rights, thus complying with the provisions of the covenants which it has ratified, as a commitment of its will to fulfil them. We must note here that Paraguay has just received a visit from the Inter- American Commission on Human Rights, which arrived in the country in response to an invitation by the Government. With regard to the priorities of justice concerning crimes of international scope, we find it very satisfactory to note a most promising event: the approval in 1998 of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, to pass judgement on individuals accused of the crimes which most offend the human conscience. Paraguay, being one of the signatories, has submitted this document for parliamentary approval. Furthermore, Paraguay, whose population includes 15 per cent of foreigners, the majority of whom live in border areas, free of segregation or discrimination, notes with satisfaction that the problem of the Balkans is moving back to its natural ambit, the United Nations Security Council, which must necessarily approve any decision. 7 Our permanent, determined support for the Conference on Disarmament is one of the pillars of our international policy. Paraguay, which supported the process of decolonization and the autonomy of peoples from the time the United Nations was established, has followed with great concern the events in East Timor. I sincerely hope that with the efforts of the United Nations, the best solution will be found to the problem, with the consecration of the rights of this people, legitimized in the referendum and encouraged by our Organization. My country has firmly decided to keep to the essential principles of coexistence and civilization; this is a necessary result of its belonging to the international community. Following the principle of universality, Paraguay supports the right of all the peoples of the world to make their voices heard at the United Nations. Paraguay believes that the situation in the China Strait must be resolved within the framework of international law, non-aggression and peaceful coexistence of nations. I cannot fail to state here that we share the sorrow of the people of the Republic of China at the catastrophe afflicting its territory. We must all commit ourselves to offering cooperation and help to achieve its full recovery. In my country there is an unswerving commitment to democracy and the belief that this can be consolidated only through justice, social equity, economic growth and sustainable development. That is why my Government has resolved to participate and act together with other countries in all efforts aimed at preserving natural resources and the environment, an indispensable task for comprehensive development. For the same reasons, in this year when humanity will achieve the surprising figure of six billion inhabitants in the world, we, the Heads of State and Government and political leaders and officials have the historic responsibility to respond to the needs and expectations of this huge world population. But let us not do it with hunger, thirst, wars, terrorism, discrimination, genocide, tyranny and injustice — let us do it with responsibility, with positive actions, and with security for the human person. On the threshold of the new millennium, Paraguay is prepared to participate in this urgent task of improving human civilization.  Your brilliant election, Mr. President, to the presidency of the General Assembly at this session pays tribute to your personal merits and your eminent qualities as a diplomat, and to your country, Namibia, a country that is to us a symbol of the struggle against oppression. First of all, allow me to address our most sincere and warm congratulations to you. Your country and Burkina Faso share the same ideals and values, and a similar vision of the future of Africa and the world. Suffice it to say that we extend to you in advance our willingness and cooperation for the success of your mission. We must also pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, who so brilliantly discharged his important responsibilities during this particularly trying year. I pay tribute as well to our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, whose work at the helm of the United Nations deserves our appreciation and our fullest support. Finally, I would like to congratulate the three new Members that have joined the great family of the United Nations — Tonga, Nauru and Kiribati. This session of the General Assembly — the last of the century — is beginning at a time when recurring and persistent inter-State and inter-ethnic conflict and hostility are characteristic of the international scene. The globalization of the international economy and the liberalization of world trade appear to have worsened the economic and social differences between peoples. The lofty objectives of our Organization — the promotion of peace, security, justice and equality — seem to be receding into the distance. We are faced with increasing challenges, which is making the task of the United Nations more difficult. And yet we sense that the coming millennium will be a time of growth for our peoples, in particular those of the developing countries. The waning century threw down every possible challenge, but it also gave rise to great hopes. It has been one of the most productive as regards legal instruments aimed at enhancing the protection and promotion of human rights. Nevertheless, grave dangers emerged during this period that came close to jeopardizing humankind's very existence. The memory of the two great wars remains very much alive. It must be underscored that the United Nations — born of the general upheaval of the post-war period and charged with working towards peace and a genuine collective security for our world — has accomplished a great deal, with the assistance of regional or subregional organizations such as the Organization of African Unity (OAU), the Organization of American States, the Association of South-East Asian Nations, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and so on. But despite all these efforts, the quest for peace remains an immense and difficult undertaking. On the international scene, wars, conflicts and confrontations of 12 all stripes continue to rage, wiping out any progress made in the field of development. In the Middle East, the level of tension between the parties remains very high, even though recent political changes have given rise to hopes of a comprehensive solution to the Palestinian question, particularly since the signing of the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum on 4 September last. In an international situation so fraught with conflict, we can only rejoice at seeing the spectre of war, which had seemed inevitable, recede from East Timor thanks to the wisdom and realism of the parties to this painful conflict. I cannot fail to mention the military intervention of the NATO countries in Yugoslavia and more specifically in Kosovo, an operation whose legitimacy was supposedly based on the right of humanitarian intervention. But my country, Burkina Faso, is among those that believe that such an intervention should take place only on the basis of a clear and precise mandate and under the supervision of the United Nations. Though the objective of this type of intervention — protecting a victimized minority — may seem defensible, the manner in which it was carried out is a cause for concern because it represents a challenge to the United Nations and to the basic norms of international law. Burkina Faso is gratified that the United Nations has taken up its proper role in the resolution of this conflict. But Africa is undoubtedly the continent that has suffered the most from these crises. Though peace has been restored in Guinea-Bissau, and in Sierra Leone the Lomé Agreement, signed on 7 July 1999 with the active participation of Burkina Faso, has put an end to the gunfire, we must continue tirelessly to strive to resolve the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in the Horn of Africa and in Angola. In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, a solution can be found if security issues, which remain the essential concerns of the various States involved in the conflict, are taken into consideration. Accordingly, Burkina Faso considers that the Lusaka agreements must be accepted by all of the parties if indeed they wish to give peace a chance. Turning to the dispute between Ethiopia and Eritrea, President Blaise Compaoré, during his tenure as the head of the high-level OAU delegation and in close cooperation with the United Nations, made every effort to promote a peaceful settlement of this conflict, in conformity with the mandate he was entrusted with at Ouagadougou by the thirty-fourth Summit of Heads of State or Government, in June 1998. Our efforts led to the acceptance by both parties of the Ouagadougou framework agreement, and, at the thirty-fifth OAU Summit, held in Algiers, of the modalities for the implementation of that agreement. We are convinced that President Abdelaziz Bouteflika, the current Chairman of the OAU, to whom we have passed the torch, will strive to ensure a successful outcome to this delicate situation. In doing so he will enjoy the continuing and vigorous support of the OAU Secretary General, Mr. Salim Ahmed Salim, and the cooperation of the United Nations and all of the States that have played a very positive and discreet role in finding a pacific solution to the conflict between these two brotherly countries. To this end, he will require the cooperation of both parties and the support of all, particularly the United Nations. The fratricidal conflict in Angola has lasted more than two decades, despite all of the sanctions and measures taken against Mr. Jonas Savimbi and his movement, UNITA. Burkina Faso is convinced that, as in other cases — particularly in Sierra Leone and the Democratic Republic of the Congo — it is only through a dialogue between the parties that a just and lasting solution can be found. It is clear that, because of their increasingly complex and interrelated nature, the various conflicts I have mentioned cannot be resolved in a just and lasting way unless the efforts of all are conjoined. This includes not only the parties to the conflict and the international community — meaning the United Nations — but also the regional and subregional organizations. In this respect, we noted, throughout our mandate as Chairman of the OAU, the determination and commitment of this Organization fully to discharge its responsibilities, as evidenced by the various initiatives it has undertaken. We stand convinced that Africa has resolutely considered the serious consequences these multiple conflicts entail for the economic and human development of its population. Accordingly, at the thirty-fifth OAU Summit in Algiers, it took the courageous and historic decision of declaring that the year 2000 would be a year of peace and security throughout the continent. 13 Of course, we know full well that in order for that objective to be attained, the support of the international community is crucial, not only at the political level, where its backing will be needed for the implementation of our decisions and resolutions, but also at the equally important level of logistics and material support, technical assistance and humanitarian considerations. But any peace is fragile that is not backed by genuine disarmament. That is why we support all international initiatives in this field, in particular the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). My country has joined in the fight against anti- personnel mines by signing and ratifying the relevant Convention. Burkina Faso is gratified at the growing support of the international community for the initiative of the Economic Community of West African States relating to a moratorium on the production and transfer of light weapons. Together with other members of the international community, my country is also participating in peacekeeping operations, in particular in the United Nations Mission in the Central African Republic. At the dawn of the twenty-first century, it is distressing to note that the world economy is still dominated and controlled by a minority of States that manipulate its rules and the way it operates in their own interests and to the detriment of the interests of the great majority — the countries that make up the South. With regard to social development, poverty has continued to increase in developing countries, where about 1.5 billion people — one quarter of the world's population — are living on less than $1 per capita per day. Food security is far from guaranteed in those countries, while in the affluent countries food is destroyed on a huge scale in order to stabilize prices. The scarcity of drinking water supplies and medical services condemns a third of humanity to a life expectancy of no more than 40 years. Illiteracy greatly limits the access of the poorest to knowledge and, by extension, to information about how their countries are run. The most disadvantaged and vulnerable strata — women, children and elderly people — do not fully enjoy the benefits of a legal protection system. At a more general level, there are unacceptable disparities in international economic relations between the industrialized and the developing countries. The latter are becoming increasingly vulnerable because of the chronic structural imbalance in trade with the developed countries. Despite the decisions taken by the ministerial conferences of the World Trade Organization, the integration of the less advanced countries into the multilateral trading system is still an issue, particularly with regard to the special and differentiated treatment that should be granted to those countries. The greatest challenge in the twenty- first century will undoubtedly be the struggle against the marginalization of the countries of the South. The burden of debt remains a constant concern, too, despite the initiative of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative and the important decisions taken by the Group of Seven Summit in Cologne, which I welcome. In order to promote the genuine and lasting human development to which all developing countries aspire, we must work for greater justice and equity in international trade, through the implementation of various measures, including price stabilization and export guarantees for the products of developing countries through the revaluation of raw materials and the stabilization of export earnings; index-linking of the prices of raw materials to those of industrial products; free access for the products the South to northern markets through the elimination of protectionist measures; reform of the Bretton Woods institutions to bring them into line with the needs and preoccupations of the developing countries; and the promotion of a genuine North-South dialogue. In this respect, Burkina Faso welcomes with interest and satisfaction the European initiative to hold an economic summit next year for the European Union countries and their African partners. As everyone knows, we can make many plans, have many ambitious dreams and imagine all sorts of transformations for our world. But if we do not place justice, equity and solidarity at the heart of all our projects, they will remain fantasies. Justice demands, for example, that we not starve a population through the use of international sanctions in order to punish its Government. Since I am touching upon that subject, I would like to reaffirm our full solidarity with the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and I hope that, as a result of the concessions made by that country with regard to the Lockerbie affair, the unfair sanctions against the brotherly Libyan people will be lifted for good. Since the historic decision at Ouagadougou, this requirement has become imperative, in our view. In this context, the issue of the Republic of China on Taiwan also deserves attention. In the interests of equity and of the principle of universality, Burkina Faso believes 14 that it is unfair virtually to ostracize 22 million Chinese people. That is why we firmly support the initiative to create a study group to examine the particular and exceptional situation of the Republic of China on Taiwan so as to determine how that entity could be represented in the United Nations. In that connection, in the interests of justice within international relations, we must restructure the Organization so that we can better respond to the demands of our time and the expectations of humanity. If the United Nations is to be more democratic and more just, such reform must go to the heart of its main body, the Security Council, whose composition and operating methods must be reviewed and corrected. The operational capacities of the Organization — the structures and activities linked to the promotion of economic and social development — must also be strengthened. Burkina Faso believes the human being to be the supreme measure of all things. That is why human rights and the dignity of humankind are at the centre of our concerns. In fact, since 1991, my country has been steadfastly undertaking an irreversible process of democratization that has led to several rounds of municipal, legislative and presidential elections under conditions recognized by international observers as being calm and unbiased. The process is being consolidated and the culture of democracy and citizenship in a republican system is well under way. The stability and security of our country in the current turbulent environment bear witness to that fact. We believe that no price can be placed on democracy and freedom. That is why we will spare no effort to strengthen and extend those values. Burkina Faso intends to make a modest contribution to building a more human world of greater justice and solidarity, because we are convinced that the new international order to which we all aspire requires that political, economic and social forces throughout the world join hands and become catalysts of progress for the benefit of humanity.   In electing you unanimously to preside over its at the fifty-fourth session, Sir, the General Assembly paid a well-deserved tribute to your country, the sister Republic of Namibia, which in November 1989, under the auspices of the United Nations Transition Assistance Group, organized that land's first free and fair elections, which marked the successful culmination of the legitimate, heroic struggle of the Namibian people for independence, under the leadership of the South-West Africa People's Organization 6 (SWAPO) and its President, His Excellency Mr. Sam Nujoma. Now, following this happy sequence of events, we are now pleased to see Namibia at the helm of this historic session of the General Assembly, represented by you yourself. On behalf of the delegation of Senegal, Sir, I convey to you our warmest, fraternal congratulations; we wish you every success in your high post. I wish also to convey my sincere and warm congratulations to your predecessor, Minister Didier Opertti, on the competent, committed and authoritative way in which he guided the work of the fifty-third session of the General Assembly. Finally, I wish once again to offer Secretary-General Kofi Annan my encouragement as he continues, with energy, intelligence and vision, to carry out his delicate tasks authoritatively and successfully in a particularly difficult global context. I feel bound to say that his election to head the Secretariat of the United Nations was a source of pride for Africa and a source of satisfaction for all peace- and justice-loving countries. During the Secretary- General's visit to Senegal, Mr. Abdou Diouf, President of the Republic of Senegal, made it clear that the Senegalese Government was committed to and actively supported the Secretary-General. I take genuine pleasure and great joy in welcoming among us the delegations representing the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga, which have just been admitted as full-fledged Members of the great United Nations family. These admissions attest to and bolster the universal character of our Organization, thus helping strengthen its aims and principles. Allow me to use the idea of universality to explain and justify, if that is necessary, my country's unreserved support for the admission of the Republic of China, with its 22 million inhabitants, as a full Member of the United Nations and its specialized agencies. The Republic of China — a democratic country concerned with safeguarding and promoting human rights, a world economic Power recognized by nations, and, last but not least, a nation that maintains trade relations through commercial delegations — shares with deep conviction our common faith in the noble ideals of peace, solidarity and cooperation enshrined in the Charter. That country, for the sake of the principle of the universality of our Organization, should take its place once more. Simple justice requires this, and the ideals embodied in our Charter dictate it, because it is in the name of these principles that other States are admitted as Members of this Organization, which I welcome. Our fifty-fourth regular session, we must all agree, is an event of great historical and political significance. Historical, because it is the penultimate session — or the last, depending on how you look at it — of the twentieth century, the century in which it was born, after two world wars and other great calamities for humankind, the consequences of which are still being felt. This century has also been one of light, with tremendous advances achieved by the human race in various fields, particularly in science and technology. This session takes on special political importance because it is an irreplaceable tool in the service of peace, international security, cooperation and the promotion of human rights and is a timely opportunity for dialogue, reflection and preparation for the great encounters of the coming millennium. At the threshold of the third millennium, we should wonder and think together, in the framework of this Organization, about what kind of peace, development and solidarity we should build in the coming century. It is a recognized fact that current changes, the range of whose effects in the political, economic and social spheres cannot be foreseen, call inevitably for a deep-going reform of the United Nations and impose a need to adapt the Organization to the demands of the times. Thus, we need to be clear-sighted, creative and realistic and make innovative, broad-ranging and constructive proposals that can be translated into concrete actions taken solely in the interests of all our peoples and all our nations, which make up the family that we call humankind. In this respect, reform of the Security Council is a major test of our resolve to modernize this important body, which we need to endow with greater transparency, greater democracy, greater authority and greater legitimacy — in short, greater credibility. Many proposals have already been made, but in restructuring this key organ of the system, we need to go beyond them, demonstrating creativity and a willingness to compromise, considering only the interests of this Organization at the service of humanity. From this standpoint, in the Algiers Declaration, the States of Africa unanimously recalled the legitimate demands embodied in the Harare Declaration adopted by the Conference of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity (OAU). The pressing need to adapt the United Nations system to the realities of the coming century should, 7 nonetheless, not obscure current acute needs associated with the maintenance and promotion of peace in the world. In this spirit, as the international community celebrates the 100th anniversary of the Hague Peace Conference, I wish to say how much we welcome certain significant advances towards peace in Africa. We commend the Peace Agreement signed in Lomé on 7 July 1999, thanks to the tireless efforts of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and President Eyadema, in the context of the Sierra Leone conflict. We also commend the Abuja Peace Agreement and the additional protocols in the context of the Guinea-Bissau conflict, thanks to the mediation of ECOWAS, under the chairmanship of Nigeria and Togo. Senegal strongly supports the Governments of Sierra Leone and Guinea-Bissau in their efforts to build peace, to move resolutely towards national reconciliation and to implement a policy of economic and social recovery in their countries. In the same spirit, the signing last 10 July, in Lusaka, of the Ceasefire Agreement among the principal parties to the conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo is another cause for satisfaction and hope. I would also like to touch on the Lockerbie affair in the hopes that the attitudes of the countries offer the possibility of a successful outcome. Last, but not least, my country expresses the warmest hope that the referendum process under way in Western Sahara will be completed as early as possible in accordance with the letter and spirit of the United Nations settlement plan adopted in 1991, as well as that of the Houston agreements, with full respect for the inalienable rights of all inhabitants of Western Sahara to participate in the referendum. Allow me — and I think this is the right place to do so — to pay humble tribute to the memory of King Hassan II. Finally, we hope that with the assistance of the great Powers and the cooperation of Indonesia, the situation in East Timor will be brought under control by the United Nations in order to ensure that the legitimate rights of the Timorese people prevail. These significant breakthroughs should not make us overlook the situations in Angola and Somalia, or the conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea, where, in spite of the praiseworthy efforts of the OAU, there has been no serious sign of a final settlement. We must therefore continue our efforts because our only salvation lies in peace and in reconciliation. In this sense, the evolution we have witnessed in the Middle East gives us grounds for hope, the hope of finally seeing a climate of complete trust and confidence and a sincere resumption of negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians and between Israel and the Arab countries, with the rights of the peoples of the region respected. My country, having presided over the Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People ever since its creation, reaffirms its support for and solidarity with the fraternal people of Palestine, the Palestinian Authority and its head, President Yasser Arafat, which have been struggling now for more than half a century for the creation of an independent and sovereign Palestinian State. We solemnly reaffirm our support for the Bethlehem 2000 project which has the objective of celebrating in Bethlehem, on Palestinian soil, the second millennium since the birth of Christ. Furthermore, the Israeli Government seems now to want to work resolutely for peace. We urge it to continue on this path. It is the only approach that responds to the situation of the peoples of the subregion and to the hardships connected to the constraints imposed by globalization. Before concluding the subject of peace and security, I would like to state that my country supports any move to protect, safeguard and promote the rights of women and children. Its legal code has been modified to translate that choice and those convictions into its own domestic law. I should like now to deal with the other dimension of peace: development cooperation. The United Nations, responding once again to its mission to serve the peoples of the world, has, during the major conferences of the decade, provided a framework for the definition of a coherent set of programmes based on consensus. These programmes continue to inspire our common efforts towards sustainable development. But a careful review of the realities of this century now coming to a close lead us to note that our achievements have been seriously undermined by the contradictory tendencies that are a hallmark of humanity as it enters the third millennium. The lack of sufficient sustained growth in the world as a whole means that the global economy is facing great risks in the years to come. Indeed, because of a lack of sufficient growth, trade tensions are threatening to increase between 8 underdeveloped countries and around them, and thus the lag in development can only increase, increasing the mob of uncontrolled emigration. In addition, the gap that has been emerging over many years is becoming increasingly clear. On the one hand we see a small number of regions enjoying a high standard of living or rapid development. In these countries the volume of trade, of interdependence and competition is increasing. On the other hand, there is a group of countries — more numerous and more populous — in which the standards of living are poor and stagnating. They are for the most part not involved in this ever-tighter network of commercial, financial and industrial exchanges. It is difficult for them to find markets for their products, they suffer from capital flight, and businesses avoid setting up in these countries. However, over the last four years, the gross national product of Africa has grown at an annual average rate of 4.5 per cent, resulting in a year-on-year increase in per capita incomes. This is particularly remarkable because the progress is attributable, above all, to internal adjustment efforts rather than to external phenomena. Nevertheless, despite this macroeconomic performance, most African countries do not possess the basic means for ensuring sustainable growth in a future of a kind that would enable them to achieve their poverty-reduction objectives in keeping with the medium-term goals set at the World Summit on Social Development in Copenhagen, because the required rate of growth is in the order of 8 per cent per year. While it is true that the slow pace of integration of African economies into the global economy has protected most of these economies from the most violent shocks of recent financial crises, the other side of the coin is that Africa is not in a position to take full advantage of globalization, which could increase the resources available for productive investment. However, the developing countries will not and cannot escape the effects of globalization. We would therefore like to stress here — in particular to our African partners in various initiatives such as the second Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD II), the United States/Africa forum and the negotiations between the European Union and Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific — the need to encourage the efforts that have been undertaken, particularly in the elimination of the rigidities and imbalances that persist in the global economy. In this regard, it might be worthwhile to reaffirm the commitment that joins the developing and the developed countries within the World Trade Organization and involves recognition of the need to make significant efforts so that the developing countries — the least- developed in particular — are assured of a share in the growth in world trade in keeping with their development needs. But also, an examination of the way the principles of the multilateral trade system created at the Uruguay Round have been implemented reveals that commitments have not been honoured: many obstacles impede access by products from the South in general, and from African countries in particular, to Northern markets. Tariff barriers, sliding-scale increases in duty rates, anti- dumping measures and animal and plant hygiene measures all represent acts and attitudes that impede trade and that affect our exports — and, thus, our trade surpluses. That is why we venture to hope that the Seattle Round in November this year will take into greater account not only the concerns of the developing countries positions by removing obstacles to their complete participation in world trade on the basis of the principles of justice and equity — particularly by working to reduce and eliminate the restrictive and distorting effects that the aforementioned barriers, laws and measures have on trade — but will also take into consideration social rights and sustainable development as inalienable elements in all world trade. Given the significant efforts by the African countries to achieve their recent economic performance levels, it will be a Herculean task in terms of resources for them to achieve and maintain 8 per cent annual growth in their gross domestic product, in order to reduce poverty. We should like to take this opportunity to welcome the new international climate for finding a solution to the African debt crisis, particularly given that the total of this debt — estimated at $350 billion in 1998 — represents 300 per cent of Africa's export earnings. To this end, the proposals by a some G-8 countries, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and other organs of the United Nations, as well as the recent studies by the Bretton Woods institutions, are signs of a new realism, i.e., that most of the debt cannot be repaid, that the debt is a major obstacle to balanced growth in African countries, and that the current machinery for debt settlement, in particular the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt (HIPC) Initiative, is too slow, too selective and imposes too many conditions. The principal members of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) must accept the 9 idea, among others, of increasing the resources for the HIPC significantly by selling gold reserves. Furthermore, despite the pressures within the donor community to reduce aid volumes, the economic performance of Africa and the continent's commitment to structural reform can be maintained only on the basis of expansion, not contraction: increased development assistance is essential if we are to achieve the fundamental objectives of development. Finally, despite the praiseworthy efforts of our various countries to implement economic and financial reforms, inflows of direct foreign investment remain marginal. In highlighting these major factors in the current global economic situation, I am far from wishing to shirk an enduring truth: sustainable development is the individual responsibility of each State. The need for the international community to find a more global and more judicious solution to the debt problem in no way detracts from the need for African countries to manage their economies better. This attitude towards debt will be put into practice by the definition and implementation of a high-quality macroeconomic framework; by a significant intensification of efforts towards national thrift to accompany international financing; and by respect for the state of law, transparency, control and responsibility in the management of public affairs. Thanks to the guidance and choices of Mr. Abdou Diouf, President of the Republic, my country subscribes to these fundamental principles, on which the policy of the Government of Senegal is based. I have particularly stressed questions of peace and development because we live on a continent where peace is threatened every day by underdevelopment and where development efforts are made precarious by the absence of peace. It is therefore important that efforts to consolidate peace in Africa be accompanied by extraordinary efforts to increase the quality and quantity of development assistance in order significantly to reduce our debt and increase the flow of productive investment to our continent and to establish, if not a Marshall Plan for Africa, at least a plan for financing its development. My delegation fervently hopes that, at the dawn of the twenty-first century, the opportunity will be found to revive international cooperation for development in order to build a more humane world. I am convinced that we have the means and the intelligence; we must also summon the political determination to do so. Thus, in order to improve interaction, Africa for its part has agreed to promote economic integration and to go one step further by creating a union of African States. This was the sense of the Syrte Declaration adopted on 9 September 1999 at the Fourth Extraordinary Summit of heads of State of the Organization of African Unity, convened on the happy initiative of Mr. Al-Qadhafi. I am convinced that the wealthy nations are clearly aware of their various and diverse responsibilities and that they will not shirk their obligations. Indeed, should they do so, God forbid, the eternal night of hideous poverty will blanket almost the entire world. I express the genuine hope, willingly undertaken and profoundly shared by all nations, that we cannot remain indifferent to anything that is human. I am therefore convinced that, together, we can save humanity. It gives me great pleasure to congratulate you, Mr. President, and the sisterly country of Namibia on your election to chair 25 the proceedings of the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. This choice is truly an honour for our continent and a tribute to your promising country. We are convinced that under your leadership our work this year will be successful, and this session will constructively result in the realization of our expectations. I would also like to express appreciation and gratitude to your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, Foreign Minister of the friendly country of Uruguay, for his excellent conduct of the work of the previous session. We also welcome the new Member States that have joined our Organization: the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. I should also like to take this opportunity to thank the Secretary-General of our Organization, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his admirable management of the Organization and for his commendable efforts to infuse it with a new dynamism so that its organs can fulfil our aspirations. He deserves our admiration and appreciation. Many important events have marked this century to which we are about to bid farewell. They have led to a new political and economic balance of power and a modification of the international system. With the disintegration of borders, the evolution of means of communication and the spread of globalization in the financial and technological fields, the universality of the issues affecting mankind has become the most distinctive characteristic of international relations, and the problems of the age have become too difficult for individual countries to resolve. The tragedies witnessed over the last few years, including ethnic cleansing and blatant defiance of the universal human conscience, call more than ever before for pooling the efforts of the international community and consolidating the role and the efficiency of the United Nations, which is indeed the best-suited forum for settling international disputes. This would make it possible for the Organization to fully shoulder its responsibilities and keep abreast of current challenges, while displaying a political will that would enhance its credibility and strengthen its ability to achieve its goals. As regards the Security Council, current events on the international scene require that we reconsider its working methods and its composition in order to enhance its credibility, promote its ability to preserve international peace and security and ensure balanced representation in its membership on the basis of equitable geographical distribution. Economic and social conditions in the world still rank high among the concerns of mankind. Indeed, as illustrated by widely divergent indicators between the North and the South, the world is suffering from a widening gap in economic and social conditions and strong disparities in human development. Those ever- increasing disparities constitute a basic factor in the instability that characterizes our world today. This imbalance has led to a proliferation of poverty in various parts of the world, as well as to the spread of illiteracy, unemployment and several other social ills that now threaten world peace and security. We recall with appreciation the distinguished role played by the United Nations, as it has developed over the last few years a special interest in various economic and social development issues. Morocco is fully aware of the importance of social development as a fundamental means of achieving comprehensive development. This awareness was the cornerstone of several pioneering initiatives taken by Morocco to overcome social problems, especially the plague of poverty. To that end, an institution known as the Mohammed V Solidarity Foundation was set up, and is now under the supervision of His Majesty King Mohammed, to fight poverty by mobilizing the active components of civil society. In keeping with its firm belief that individual and collective prosperity cannot take place outside the purview of democracy and respect for human rights, Morocco has taken keen interest in the consolidation of human rights and democratic practices. Hence, Morocco has undertaken some pioneering initiatives in the area of promoting human rights, disseminating a human rights culture, and protecting them against any violation or transgression. It has enhanced the role of the various components of civil society, including institutions that promote the role of women, in various political, economic, social and cultural fields. Opting for the multiparty system and democratic alternation of government as a political system, Morocco has made human rights and fundamental freedoms an individual and a collective principle that is considered a strong pillar of the Moroccan political system. This, in turn, has made it possible for Morocco to hold a distinguished position among the countries that have adopted democracy as a system and as a way of life. 26 Convinced of the absolute necessity of coexistence with its neighbours, in keeping with the strong historical ties between Morocco and Spain, and given the desire of both countries to further enhance their cooperation and good neighbourliness, Morocco has been calling for the implementation of the initiative of the late King Hassan II aimed at setting up a joint Moroccan-Spanish working group to reach a final settlement of the current status of the two cities, Ceuta and Melilla, and the neighbouring islands, in a way that ensures Morocco’s sovereignty over those regions while guaranteeing Spain’s economic interests. We do hope that the deep historical ties between the two countries, the solid and privileged relations that exist between them, and the ambitions of both peoples to achieve further rapprochement and cooperation, will be a strong incentive towards reaching a final solution to this problem, satisfactory to both parties. Ever since their independence, Arab Maghreb countries have believed in the inevitable necessity to achieve regional integration in order to counter the challenges of development and to ensure the progress and prosperity of their peoples. In keeping with those objectives, the Arab Maghreb Union was set up as a reflection of the region’s age-old shared history and an embodiment of its peoples’ unity of faith, language, history and common destiny. Given the blocs and groupings that characterize the world today and the challenges imposed by the current economic situation, we believe that it is necessary to pursue efforts to give fresh impetus to the Arab Maghreb Union as well as a new dynamism to its various organs, while strengthening cooperation among its members so that it may discharge its mission by taking up development challenges and building an integrated Maghreb economy. Morocco welcomes with deep satisfaction the positive developments witnessed on the Lockerbie issue, which have led to the suspension of the sanctions imposed on the sisterly Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. Because of its solidarity with that country, a founding member of the Arab Maghreb Union and one of the pioneering leaders among Arab and African countries, Morocco notes with deep regret the long lasting hardships and the grave tragedy endured by the Libyan people due to the embargo imposed on them. We hope that sanctions applied to the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya will be completely and definitively lifted as soon as possible, on the basis of the principles of justice and equity, and that the sisterly Libyan Arab Jamahiriya will resume its constructive role, within the international community, for the establishment of security, stability and peace. The international community has followed with satisfaction the beginning of a comprehensive settlement of the Middle East crisis. This has been achieved through various agreements reached by the parties concerned, the latest being the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum. Those accords rekindled the hopes of the peoples of the region in building a new future based on security, stability and coexistence. The agreements that have been signed — which are founded on the principle of land for peace — set the stage for a new era based on international law, as attested to by the commitments made by the parties concerned. The accords uphold the right of all peoples of the region to live in security and stability, and the right of the Palestinian people in particular to exercise self- determination and to establish its independent State. The brotherly Iraqi people have been suffering for years from the impact of an economic embargo that has had pernicious effects on them, especially children, women and the elderly. As it voices full solidarity with the fraternal Iraqi people, Morocco calls for the pooling of international efforts in order to lift the embargo and to find a peaceful settlement to this problem within the framework of international law and in compliance with Security Council resolutions. In this respect, we stress the need to preserve the sovereignty of Iraq, its security and its territorial integrity. Solving the many problems affecting Africa requires that the international community seriously tackle the economic and social conditions and the various conflicts that beset most African countries, conditions that have had a negative effect on the hopes of African peoples, as well as on their legitimate right to achieve comprehensive development and to live under stable and safe conditions. Being deeply committed to our ties of brotherhood and solidarity with all African countries, Morocco has consistently placed African issues at the forefront of its concerns. As a token of its unwavering solidarity with African countries, Morocco devotes 95 per cent of its annual international assistance appropriations to African countries. Morocco has followed with keen interest the international endeavours aimed at restoring peace in Kosovo and at putting an end to the bloody conflict and ethnic-cleansing campaigns that have claimed the lives of thousands of innocents Kosovars, in blatant violation of international law and of the most fundamental principles of human rights. Given its keen desire to strengthen peace in the region, Morocco has expressed its readiness to 27 participate in KFOR and has made all possible humanitarian efforts to provide material assistance to Kosovar refugees. To this end, it also set up, at the initiative of Her Royal Highness Princess Lalla Meryem, a fund to collect donations for Kosovar children. Because of its geographical location, its historical ties and its economic and cultural relations with Mediterranean countries, Morocco believes that the consolidation of security and stability and the promotion of cooperation in the region are an absolute necessity. Thus Morocco took part in the Euro-Mediterranean dialogue, from the Barcelona conference to the Stuttgart conference, which provided an opportunity to assess the Barcelona process three years after its inception. During the Stuttgart conference Morocco voiced its conviction that for security and stability to prevail in the Mediterranean basin there has to be an effective partnership between the countries of the region that takes into consideration the political, economic, social and cultural dimensions. The Kingdom of Morocco has always taken a great interest in the question of disarmament, because it is linked both to international peace and security and to economic and social development. In this respect, we reiterate the need to ensure that all the countries of the Middle East region join the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and submit their facilities to the safeguards system of the International Atomic Energy Agency. This action, along with making the Middle East region a nuclear- weapons-free zone, would be a decisive contribution to restoring confidence and peace in that region. As regards the question of the referendum in our southern desert provinces, Morocco reiterates its full support for the efforts of the United Nations, especially those of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, aimed at completing the process as soon as possible and under conditions most conducive to transparency, justice and success. As a contribution towards that objective, Morocco has endeavoured, from the start of the process, to inform the United Nations of any deviations that might affect the legitimate rights of the potential participants in the referendum. Thus, following the publication of the first part of the preliminary lists of the Sahraouis that have been identified, Morocco expressed concern over practices that have affected the identification process and have led to the elimination of thousands of names of people of Sahraoui origin, despite the fact that they had met the agreed criteria and conditions. It is our dearest hope that the United Nations will come up with equitable solutions that take into consideration our concerns and those of thousands of Sahraoui candidates who, had they not been compelled to leave the region because of the fight they were waging against colonialism, would have been covered by the census and therefore been accepted directly by the Identification Commission. The phenomenon of economic globalization has been swiftly developing and expanding. It has led to a liberalization of markets, swifter exchange relations, enhanced global productivity and greater financial flows. The economic changes affecting the international arena call for a comprehensive review of the rules of international economic interactions in order to adapt them to those changes and to the development needs of all of humanity. This aspect was at the forefront of the concerns of His Majesty King Mohammed VI in the address he delivered, when he was Crown Prince, on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the multilateral trading system, celebrated in Geneva in 1998. His Majesty pointed out that “the comprehensive project advocated by the founders of our system remains fragile because of the fate of hundreds of millions of people who will not accept indefinite marginalization while tremendous progress and prosperity are being enjoyed by the advanced countries of the world.” In future negotiations, and within the framework of the World Trade Organization, Morocco is of the view that the adoption of a global and balanced approach reflecting the legitimate interests of all countries, while taking into account the developmental dimension of advanced countries, should be the best means to achieve a just and balanced international trade system. Morocco believes that effective solutions to the debt problem should not be restricted to partial alleviation of the debt burden of some countries only, but should, rather, take the form of a comprehensive policy to stimulate the economic activity of debt-ridden developing countries through promoting their exports and encouraging direct foreign investments in them. Following the ninth ministerial meeting of the Group of 77 and China — which I had the honour of chairing and which was held in Marrakesh, Morocco, from 13 to 16 September 1999, in preparation for the tenth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and 28 Development — the Group of 77 and China adopted the Marrakesh Declaration, which pointed out that “the disparities in the scope and impact of globalization have led to economic disharmony, both at the international and national levels. This translates into new challenges to our development ambitions. Many developing countries are facing difficulties in their attempts to effectively integrate with the world economy and are suffering the consequences of globalization.” In conclusion, we believe that, as we stand on the threshold of the new millennium, the international community should exert greater efforts to create a political, economic and social environment conducive to further cooperation and rapprochement among peoples, so that all of mankind can enjoy the fruits of peace and live in prosperity and tranquility.  On behalf of the delegation of Uganda, I should like to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab and all the Vice-Presidents on their election to guide the deliberations of the General Assembly at its last session of this century. I also thank the President of the General Assembly at its fifty-third session for the effective manner in which he discharged his responsibilities. Allow me also to pay a well-deserved tribute to the Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his tireless efforts on behalf of the United Nations, especially in the area of the maintenance of international peace and security. Uganda is pleased to welcome to membership of the United Nation the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. At the end of this turbulent century and on the eve of what my delegation hopes will be a more peaceful and prosperous new century, the United Nations stands out as the best hope for the future of humankind, international cooperation and solidarity. Uganda believes that a strong and effective United Nations is the best guarantor of world peace and the most effective instrument to prevent another world war. My Government is therefore determined to play a constructive role in ensuring that the United Nations of the twenty-first century will be increasingly dedicated to the noble principles and purposes enshrined in the Charter. Those principles and purposes, which have stood the test of time, must continue to serve the peoples of the world and guide this world Organization. At the dawn of the twenty-first century, the economic situation in Africa and the living conditions of the vast majority of Africans are a cause of concern for my delegation. By virtually any standard, the African continent remains marginalized. The statistics for the continent are dismal. With slightly over 10 per cent of the world's population, sub-Saharan Africa accounts for a meagre 1.5 per cent of world trade. The region receives less than 0.6 per cent of total foreign direct investment. Coupled with this is the fact that Africa's export earnings have been on the decline due to a significant decrease in the demand for primary commodities; Africa's terms of trade have not improved; a crushing debt burden and a serious lack of capacity to generate domestic savings have worsened the economic situation. These negative trends have increased the dependence of most sub-Saharan African countries on official development assistance, but official development assistance itself has also been on the decline, falling from 0.33 per cent of the combined gross national product of donors members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in 1992 to 0.22 per cent in 1998. This is a far cry from the 0.7 per cent target agreed upon by the international community in the early 1970s. The current state of economic globalization indicates that Africa remains the least integrated continent and the most marginalized economically. Africa has effectively been locked out of the benefits accruing from globalization. The challenge before the international community is to adopt and implement, as a matter of urgency, concrete measures to mitigate the negative consequences of globalization on African economies. The United Nations must take the lead in efforts to restructure the international monetary system to make it more responsive to the plight of African and other developing countries. Uganda believes that fundamental restructuring of the present international economic system is essential to transform the world from a mere constellation of wealthy cities surrounded by a galaxy of abject poverty into a truly global village. 33 The pivotal role played by transnational corporations in this inequitable economic system demands that the United Nations play a more active role in our collective efforts to regulate the activities of these powerful non-state actors. My delegation would like to propose the revival of the United Nations Centre on Transnational Corporations and the United Nations Commission on Transnational Corporations for that purpose. The increasing control and dominance exercised by global corporations over the world economy has serious consequences for many of us. It is time Governments, and not multinational corporations, set the international agenda for economic cooperation and development. I would like to underscore Uganda's commitment to uphold the tenets of human rights and fundamental freedoms. We believe in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and all other international human rights instruments. At the national level, Uganda has incorporated the universal principles of human rights into the basic law of the country, and we are committed to the principles of good governance, transparency and accountability. The world is aware of the great debate taking place in Uganda about the process of our democratization. In accordance with our Constitution, the people of Uganda will exercise a free choice to determine their system of governance in a referendum next year. I take this opportunity to invite observers and others who may wish to witness the referendum to do so when the time comes. With regard to internal conflicts, Uganda has granted a blanket amnesty to all who lay down their arms and become part of civil society. An amnesty Bill is before our Parliament, and in a very short time will be passed into law. I would be remiss if I did not emphasize Uganda's commitment to the observance, in the region, of human rights and fundamental freedoms. In 1994 the world was witness to genocide in Rwanda in which an estimated 1 million people were massacred. A similar act was about to be perpetrated in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in the course of 1997 and 1998. Apart from our legitimate concerns about our national security and territorial integrity, Uganda finds it unacceptable that gross violations of the right to life should again be carried out in its neighbourhood or anywhere else in the world. It is vital for all of us to recognize the sanctity of the right to life. We are glad to note that the evolution of international law on human rights no longer condones genocide under the guise of non-interference in a country's internal affairs. The principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of States has been so fundamentally eroded that the international community should now openly adopt a definitive convention which will permit instant intervention in cases of massive threats to the right to life. In July 1998 the United Nations Conference of Plenipotentiaries overwhelmingly adopted the Statute for the establishment of an International Criminal Court. Uganda has consistently identified itself with the entire process which culminated in the adoption of the Court's Statute. It was to many a triumphant moment for those hitherto yearning for a world in which individual persons, regardless of their socio-economic or political attributes, would be held personally accountable for acts or omissions resulting in genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. At present work is under way in the Preparatory Commission for the Court to define aggression as a core crime. Once the Statute comes into force, it holds humanity's best hope for a new world legal order under which nobody, however high or low, can engage in horrendous crimes with impunity. We urge the international community to support our efforts in the Great Lakes region focused on stopping, averting and reversing progression towards further chaos and restoring peace. Such support must include real improvement of the socioeconomic wellbeing of our peoples through debt cancellations, promotion of democratic governance, adherence to sustainable human rights standards and, above all, strengthening our regional conflict- resolution mechanisms, peacemaking and peace- building initiatives. Throughout this year world attention has been repeatedly drawn to the fact that citizens of the world are about to enter a new millennium. I would like to share with the Assembly Uganda's expectations for the new century and millennium with regard to the role of the United Nations. We in Uganda recognize that the United Nations played a pivotal role in the decolonization of Africa and other parts of the world. The United Nations played an equally vital role in the eradication of institutionalized racial discrimination in southern Africa. For all these efforts we are grateful. The question arises as to what should be the vision and goals of the United Nations through the next century. 34 It is the view and expectation of the people of Uganda that the focus of the United Nations should be the elimination of poverty in Africa and the rest of the underdeveloped world. The factors underlying underdevelopment have been mentioned several times. However, implementation of solutions has fallen short of expectations. We urge the United Nations to adopt concrete measures to deal with problems of the external debt burden, illiteracy, disease and famine. We expect the United Nations, through the World Trade Organization, to create a more favourable international trading regime which can promote fair competition and permit the ascendancy of primary commodity producers from abject poverty to reasonable wealth. Uganda supports the heroic struggle of the Sahraoui people for self-determination, and we look forward to the holding of a referendum by the United Nations to enable the people of that territory to freely determine their destiny. My delegation would like to express deep appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and former United States Secretary of State, Mr. James Baker, for their tireless efforts in this regard. We appeal to the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco to respect the verdict of the Sahraoui people and to facilitate the implementation of whatever decision they make. The situation in the Great Lakes region, and particularly in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, has been cause for serious concern, not only to the countries in the region, but also to the international community. On its part, Uganda continues to view issues of peace and stability in the region with the utmost seriousness, which they deserve. Uganda's desire for peace and stability is born out of its conviction that without regional peace and security there can be no meaningful economic development and social well-being of its people. Uganda is hopeful that the conflicts that today beset many countries in the region will give way to peace and eventual socio-economic transformation. We are also hopeful that, with the region's resolve, we shall be able to surmount the challenges and exploit the opportunities of the new millennium. Indeed, sustained efforts are being made to put an end to the crisis and contribute to the search for peaceful solutions to the problems facing the region. And whereas efforts and contributions towards peace in the region have traversed a long and difficult road, there is optimism for the future. In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the countries in the region, with the support of the international community, have been working tirelessly towards promoting a peaceful solution to the crisis. We acknowledge the regional efforts, under the leadership of President Frederick Chiluba of Zambia, which culminated in the signing of the ceasefire Agreement. I pay tribute to all the parties concerned for this achievement and to all well-wishers for their continued support for the peace process. The Agreement was thoroughly negotiated to the satisfaction of all the parties. Uganda appeals to the international community to assist in efforts to operationalize the Joint Military Commission and the Political Committee, which are organs of the Lusaka Agreement and the key to the success of this Agreement and, therefore, to peace in the subregion. Uganda is committed to the implementation of the Lusaka Agreement and believes that all the signatories to the Agreement are committed to its success. Against this background, it was unnecessary for this matter to be included on the agenda of the current session of the General Assembly. The Ceasefire Agreement essentially covers the two primary causes of the conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, namely, the external and internal dimensions. Regarding the external dimension, a mechanism was established to handle the security concerns of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its neighbouring countries, including Uganda. In particular, the Security Council was requested, in collaboration with the Organization of African Unity, to constitute, facilitate and deploy an appropriate peacekeeping force in the Democratic Republic of the Congo to ensure implementation of the Agreement, including the tracking down, disarming and documenting of all renegade forces in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Regarding the internal dimension, the Congolese parties agreed to undertake political negotiations as a result of which the parties are expected to conclude an agreement leading to a new political dispensation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, to the restructuring and rebuilding of a new national army in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and to the establishment and strengthening of State administration over the entire territory of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is Uganda's hope that the inter-Congolese negotiations will provide an opportunity for the Congolese parties to address issues of good governance. Our desire for the 35 Congolese people to reach mutual understanding derives from the fact that political instability in any neighbouring country directly impinges on our own security and economic development. We will look forward, therefore, to the early beginning and success of the inter-Congolese negotiations. Regarding the conflict in the Sudan, Uganda supports the ongoing peace initiative launched under the auspices of the Inter-governmental Authority on Development (IGAD) and with the facilitation of President Daniel arap Moi of Kenya. As a neighbour and a member of IGAD, Uganda has been working closely with the other countries in the region in efforts aimed at a peaceful resolution of the conflict. However, peace in that country remains elusive. Uganda is convinced that the fundamental issue in the Sudanese crisis is the link between state and religion. In a multireligious and multicultural society such as the Sudan, the only way to achieve good governance is to guarantee freedom of worship, equality and respect for all. At the bilateral level, we are concerned at the increasing hostility towards Uganda from the Sudan, as manifested in the consistent violation of Uganda's territorial integrity and in active support for rebel groups that are destabilizing us. Uganda has embraced and will continue to embrace all initiatives aimed at reconciliation with the Sudan, despite the fact that all previous initiatives have failed. I would like to single out initiatives by former President Rafsanjani of Iran, President Bakili Muluzi of Malawi, President Qadhafi of Libya, former President Mandela of South Africa and others — all these efforts have come to naught. The three East African countries of Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda are very conscious of the fact that political stability is a prerequisite for economic development and have taken the necessary measures to achieve this objective. The three countries, together with their partners in the region, are engaged in regional peace efforts for Burundi, the Sudan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, through organizations such as IGAD and the Southern African Development Community. The three countries have invested in peace in order to ensure regional stability because of the recognition that peace and political stability are vital if the region is to attract investments. Today, our region has created a favourable environment for foreign investment. There exists a very strong political will to move the region towards closer cooperation. We have harmonized many of our economic policies, and a number of joint activities in support of regional economic integration are being undertaken. The three countries are now in an advanced stage of cementing the relationship by signing a treaty that would establish the East African Community before the end of the year. We thank our development partners who have been supporting our efforts towards regional economic integration and look forward to continued cooperation, especially in the area of infrastructure development and in the field of capacity-building for the private sector, which have been identified as the key areas. In conclusion, I would like to state that Uganda shares the vision of an African renaissance in which African peoples participate fully in their systems of governance and in the process of determining their destiny. We believe that this is a recipe for rapid economic development and therefore for the eradication of poverty in Africa.First of all, I would like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. I am fully confident that your experience and competence will contribute to the success of this session. With the end of the cold war, there was a feeling that the world would see balanced international relations, characterized by peace, stability and well-being. But the state of affairs has proved otherwise; the international imbalance continues and is being used to place the logic of hegemony above all else in order to perpetuate it in the world and its international organizations, particularly the United Nations. Because of this situation, the world has witnessed a series of deep and rapid-moving changes that have led to the emergence of many areas of political and military conflicts with dangerous consequences reflected in the human, economic and social conditions of many regions in the world. These conflicts have claimed the lives of hundreds of thousands of innocent civilians and have caused the huge squandering of material and human resources. The world will enter the new century in this fashion. The picture before us demonstrates the tyranny of force, the imposition of hegemony and the aggravating economic problems by which the States of the South are increasingly marginalized to the extent that their entities and elements of survival are about to be eliminated. This 27 will lead to economic subordination, inevitably followed by political subordination. In this context, there has emerged a new phenomenon of imposing various kinds of embargoes and economic sanctions, withholding development and depriving States of the exercise of their economic rights as enshrined in international law and covenants. The catastrophic effects of this imbalance are reflected in the social conditions of many regions in the world. These effects are demonstrated by an increase in the intensity of poverty, the spread of illiteracy, deterioration of the health situation and degradation of living standards. It can also be seen in the marginalization of many social segments of society, especially youth, because of lack of jobs; the same goes for the increase in crime and the prevalence of drugs, as well as other serious social problems which can hardly be controlled. It is no secret that one of the main reasons for the aggravation of this situation is the arbitrary imposition of comprehensive sanctions and embargoes on many States in the world for political purposes, without any sound foundation in international law. It is obvious that this policy has resulted in tragic effects on the economic and social structures of the targeted States and on third countries. It constitutes a flagrant violation of the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter and the principles of justice. The most dangerous phenomenon witnessed during the present decade, which in the course of this session has become an endeavour orchestrated by a group of Western States, is the advocacy of so-called humanitarian intervention. This doctrine, which has no place in international law, stems from an organized infringement of the most fundamental rules of the present international order, such as sovereignty, political independence, territorial integrity and non-interference in internal affairs. These principles cannot provide a protective shield for grave violations of human rights or for intervention, sometimes with the use of force, in order to protect those rights. No one should be deceived by this doctrine as the new framework for a modern forum of neo-colonialism based on the logic of power. First of all, we should realize that no situation used as a justification for this doctrine is free from the external political interventions that led in the first place to the emergence of such a situation. Accordingly, it could not be claimed that international responsibility for the situation rests exclusively with the targeted Government. On the other hand, we should also realize that the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter and the mechanisms of the Organization are not devoid of modalities to deal with any situation of the type advanced to justify this doctrine. The problem does not lie with the principles, rules and procedures. Rather, it rests with the selfish and unilateral policies of the controlling Powers, whose interests cannot be served by using the United Nations mechanisms established for the correct application of the principles and rules of the Charter, which reflect the joint will and collective interests of the members of the international community. The logic of this Western doctrine is not unknown to Iraq. At an early date, President Saddam Hussein drew attention to the dangers of the policy of might and opportunism in international relations that is carried out at the expense of the balance between rights and obligations and joint responsibility, as reflected in the Charter and in international law. It is not justifiable to consider the role of the United Nations as marginalized after it has become captive to the views of the controlling Powers in international relations and their selfish interests. Regardless of what the Charter provides in terms of rights, duties and procedures, we are convinced that the doctrine of presumed humanitarian intervention represents a dangerous destructive tool that affects the gains that have accrued through joint efforts in favour of the general international interest, as evidenced by the records of this Organization. The universalization of the concepts of this doctrine would mean the complete denial of the will of the vast majority of States, with the result of destroying the present international order. Iraq joins all delegations which have declared a position contrary to this Western doctrine. We call for joint efforts to confront it. I wish here to refer to a live example of the logic of power experienced in Iraq in 1998, at around this time of year, when the Security Council was discussing the arrangements for conducting a comprehensive review of the implementation by Iraq of its obligations under Security Council resolutions, especially those relating to disarmament, with a view to considering the lifting of the comprehensive sanctions imposed on Iraq since August 1990. While the Security Council was convened to discuss the Secretary-General's report on Iraq's cooperation in the field of disarmament, the United States and British forces stationed in the Gulf region launched a large-scale military aggression against Iraq, from 16 December through 20 December 1998, using the lies and 28 fabrications of Richard Butler as a pretext for their aggression. That aggression claimed the lives of a large number of innocent civilians, in addition to destroying many infrastructure sites, as well as much industrial equipment which had already been subject to a strict monitoring system established by the former Special Commission, which did not detect any violation of Security Council resolutions at those sites. In spite of this gross violation of the Charter and mechanisms of the Organization, the Security Council, the main organ concerned with the situation, remained completely crippled and did not take any immediate collective action. The international condemnation of the American/British aggression against Iraq last December did not come from the Security Council. Rather, it came from Governments and peoples of Member States on a larger scale after a noticeable lull. As the Assembly will recall, the Security Council was preoccupied with a bare-faced process for gaining time through mandating panels to assess the special situation concerning Iraq's implementation of its obligations under the resolutions of the Security Council. Those panels began their work unilaterally, without any advanced consultation with the Government of Iraq and without listening to its point of view. This process resulted in reports reflecting the political balance within the Security Council, which distanced it from the real substance of the situation. At that point the process reached the stage of the presentation of draft resolutions ignoring the rights and obligations provided for in the resolutions of the Council itself. In fact, those draft resolutions added new obligations for Iraq, not contained in the relevant resolutions of the Security Council that Iraq had already implemented. While the Security Council resolutions imposed various obligations on Iraq, they in turn imposed a specific obligation on the Security Council, stipulating that the comprehensive embargo was to be lifted once Iraq fulfilled its obligations under the same resolutions. But what has happened in the course of the last nine years is that the Council, during 40 sessions held to review Iraq's implementation of its obligations, has failed to take a decision to lift the comprehensive embargo, much less to ease the situation even by 1 per cent, despite the fact that all countries, even Iraq's enemies — for example, the United States of America — have attested that after nine years of intensive implementation under the severest circumstances and threats of continued aggression against Iraq nothing important has been left unfulfilled. Why then has the Council failed to lift the embargo on Iraq? The reason behind all this is the American hegemony over the Council, which prevents the Council through various means from properly implementing its resolutions. We have seen for several months intensive endeavours in the Security Council, particularly by the five permanent members, to adopt a unified position on Iraq. The correct position that conforms with the resolutions of the Security Council is very clear and uncontroversial. Once the logic of law and justice is adhered to, Iraq demands its clear and legitimate rights — namely, the lifting of the iniquitous sanctions imposed on it in accordance with the Council's resolutions. These resolutions were agreed upon by the five permanent members and have been implemented by Iraq over the last nine years. Now it is the turn of those five States to honour their obligations. Iraq's position should be clear to all. To gain Iraq's approval, any proposal or resolution — or consequences, if there are any — should be based on international law and non-selectivity, otherwise the results will meet with a definite rejection and we will continue our struggle to lift the sanctions comprehensively and finally in order to achieve all our legitimate demands. It has become clear to all, through public, personal and official testimonies, that the former Special Commission — a panel unfortunately bearing the name of the United Nations and acting nominally under its flag — has been used by the United States and Great Britain to achieve their aggressive objectives against Iraq's people, sovereignty and security. In order to achieve the ultimate end of its main mission, the former Special Commission had adopted two methods for its work in Iraq: first, conducting espionage activities for American, British and Israeli intelligence so as to enable them to realize their objectives of destabilizing Iraq politically and removing its patriotic regime; and, secondly,keeping the embargo in place by reporting to the Security Council that the Special Commission had not yet fulfilled its mandate of disarming Iraq. During its work in Iraq, the former Special Commission resorted to dubious methods to falsify facts and present them in a manner that was in line with the American approach, which is hostile to Iraq. The last of these had to do with the issue of VX vials found in the Commission's headquarters at Baghdad. Those samples were used by the Commission to contaminate the missing warheads that were sent to American laboratories for analysis. That was in order to enable the United States 29 Administration to find evidence supporting its allegations regarding Iraq's weapons programmes. The Commission's dubious practices were not limited to this, but went as far as hastily destroying the VX samples in order to conceal the irrefutable evidence of the Commission's involvement in the American conspiracy against Iraq. The American attempts to distort and pervert the relationship between Iraq and the Security Council have not been limited to exploiting the former Special Commission. They reached their ugliest forms in the open obstruction of any efforts to ease the effects of the comprehensive embargo imposed on Iraq, which has resulted in bitter suffering for the people of Iraq, particularly its children. The obstacles experienced during the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding signed between Iraq and the United Nations regarding the oil-for-food formula — which all reports and realities indicate cannot meet the essential humanitarian needs of the people of Iraq — are striking evidence of the American Administration's insistence on harming the people of Iraq and depriving them of their fundamental humanitarian rights, as enshrined in all international covenants. It is worth mentioning that the total value of the supplies that arrived in Iraq for the five initial phases of the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding is almost equal to the funds deducted from the revenues of Iraqi oil sales to cover the expenses of the Special Commission, the expenses of the United Nations in Iraq and the costs of the United Nations Compensation Commission. The total value of the supplies that have arrived in Iraq from the beginning of 1997 to the present is $4,948,300,000, while the funds deducted for the Special Commission, the United Nations services and the Compensation Commission are $4,041,185,000. A cursory look at these two figures clearly shows the failure of the Memorandum of Understanding to meet the essential humanitarian needs of the people of Iraq. The methods the United States and Britain use in dealing with the contracts that are related to humanitarian needs, and the deliberate delay in processing these contracts, make the main goal of the Memorandum of Understanding the financing of the expenses of the United Nations instead of securing the essential humanitarian needs of the Iraqi people and stopping the deterioration of their humanitarian and health situation. This also exposes the intentions of the American and British Governments to strip the Memorandum of its humanitarian substance by putting on hold the contracts directly related to the health situation of the people of Iraq. For example, while the value of the contracts signed for water, sanitation and electricity has amounted to $352 million, the value of the supplies that have arrived in Iraq so far is only $64 million — that is, only 18 per cent of the total value of those contracts. The rest has been put on hold by the British and the Americans. The most striking evidence of the suffering of the children of Iraq as a result of this unjust, comprehensive embargo is the 12 August 1999 report of the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), which contains statistics on child mortality resulting from malnutrition, shortages of medicines and the deteriorating economic and nutritional situation of Iraqi mothers. The report has proved decisively that the embargo imposed on Iraq is the main reason for the huge increase in the child mortality rate. The United States Administration has spared no costs to distort the facts about the Memorandum of Understanding, or spared any tendentious lies and allegations about the distribution of food and medical supplies. The Secretary-General's reports on the Iraq programme, which are based on the reports of United Nations observers deployed throughout Iraq, have proved the accuracy, regularity and equity of the distribution process of all humanitarian supplies received under the Memorandum of Understanding. The United States of America deliberately works to maintain the embargo and to double the suffering of the people of Iraq, despite the disappearance of all the reasons linked to the imposition of the embargo. This American objective has become quite clear through the many statements made by American officials that make the embargo a tool to achieve the hostile American political policy against Iraq. One of the basic pillars of the hostile American/British policy against Iraq is the imposition of the two no-fly zones on Iraq. This constitutes a violation of the United Nations Charter and international law. We have already mentioned the evidence about this in a letter to the President of the Security Council dated 15 January 1999. This has also been confirmed by the views expressed by some permanent members and by others inside and outside the deliberations of the Council. It is well-known that the continuation of these no-fly zones is a means to perpetuate the aggression with a view 30 to achieving the purposes of the Anglo-American political scheme against Iraq. American officials do not hesitate to indicate their real intentions of using these daily bombardment operations to achieve the United States Administration's goals against Iraq's independence and sovereignty and to destabilize its patriotic Government. The Washington Post published on 31 January 1999 an article quoting a senior official of the United States Administration describing a certain attack as a means of reaching the goal in a way that satisfied all objectives without any loss, and saying that if the United States were to carry out a massive campaign, people would inquire about what had provoked such attacks. Proceeding from this policy of partitioning the aggression, the American and British warplanes have been carrying out daily exercises in a show of power that violates Iraq's airspace. In this way they launch savage bombardment operations against civil and economic sites in Iraq, including communication stations, oil pumping stations and private houses. Even mosques and churches have not been spared these continued savage attacks; the churches include the Church of Mar Matti, which goes back to the fourth century AD and which the American and British aircraft bombed on 11 August 1999. From the aggression of December 1998 to the present, the total number of sorties carried out by American and British aircraft amounted to 12,143, of which 9,830, launched from Saudi and Kuwaiti territory, were carried out in southern Iraq. Two thousand three hundred and thirteen (2,313) sorties were carried out in northern Iraq from Turkish territory. The United States Administration is seeking to find inconsistent pretexts for these daily acts of aggression, to which hundreds of innocent civilians fall victim. It claims that the bombing of civilians is in legitimate self-defence against Iraqi air force attacks. Let us ask this: where does the United States derive the right to defend an act that lacks any kind of basic legal legitimacy? Who gives the American aggressors the right to act in self-defence, as they claim, in Iraqi airspace? The acts carried out by the United States Administration represent a declared war waged against the people of Iraq. This is a charade — no more, no less. A senior Pentagon official, in describing these operations in the The Washington Post on 2 September 1999, admitted that this was a low-level war. Proceeding from its legitimate right to self-defence, which is guaranteed in all international instruments and covenants, Iraq will not hesitate to counter all American and British acts of aggression that aim at violating the integrity of its airspace and territory and threaten its security as well as that of its people. Iraq will continue to confront American and British aggression by all available means and potential. It will not yield to American blackmail. The hostile policy of the United States towards Iraq, which runs counter to the Charter of the United Nations and international law, has been made clear in official statements by senior officials in the United States Administration that stress that the United States is determined to unseat the patriotic Government of Iraq and dismember its national unity. In addition, the highest American legislative body has enacted laws that allow the Administration to interfere in Iraq's internal affairs, to allocate huge sums of money to carry out acts of terrorism, sabotage and assassination inside Iraq and to appoint high-ranking officials in the Administration to oversee these immoral and illegitimate tasks. This American policy has contributed to encouraging Turkish forces to carry out large-scale military operations inside Iraqi territory on the pretext of chasing elements of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). These Turkish military operations have caused instability and disorder in northern Iraq and pose a threat to Iraq's national security and territorial integrity. Iraq has regularly reported these repeated Turkish acts of aggression to the United Nations Secretary-General and to the President of the Security Council. These acts constitute a violation of the principles of good-neighbourliness and a threat to international peace and security in the region. But the United Nations has taken no action to curb these operations, and the reason is very clear: it is a reflection of the United States policy aimed at maintaining the abnormal situation in Iraq. The continued United States hegemony and governance of the destinies of the peoples of the world, as well as of international economic and political organizations, confront the United Nations with its most serious challenge ever. The United Nations should stand up to this domination and prove its ability to restore equilibrium so as to realize the purposes set out in the Charter, primarily the achievement of peace, security and stability, the promotion of friendly relations and the encouragement of economic cooperation between States. 31 In a speech delivered by President Saddam Hussein on 17 January 1999, Iraq called for an assembly of various institutions to be established by interested States to agree upon statutes and charters with a view to achieving serious cooperation in the economic, political and military fields in order to preserve balance and bring about peace, starting with Asia and questions related to it. That assembly would not be directed against anyone, but would be aimed at protecting its members and at legitimately defending their security and interests as well as international security, in accordance with established humanitarian norms. From this rostrum we call upon the peoples and States of the world that have faith in the values, culture, freedom, independence, justice and equity of the nations and peoples of the world, to consider President Saddam Hussein's proposal with a view to initiating a dialogue aimed at turning the proposal into a reality that would help achieve balance, peace and security throughout the world. Moreover, many States, including permanent members of the Security Council, have explicitly called for a multipolar world in which political, economic and military balance prevails, in the interest of maintaining international peace and security. The United Nations adherence to the principles set out in its Charter and the full and fair implementation of its resolutions, without selectivity and discrimination, is the benchmark of its credibility in restoring the trust of States in its ability to achieve justice and peace and to encourage States to comply with and implement the provisions of its resolutions. The United Nations, in particular the Security Council, should implement its resolutions on the Middle East, primarily those relating to the question of Palestine, and should support the legitimate struggle of the Palestinian people to regain their legitimate and inalienable rights to live on their national soil in Palestine. It should also support their struggle against the Zionist colonization of their territory and their fight to establish a sovereign independent State on their national territory, with Jerusalem as its capital. The United Nations must implement its resolutions on making the Middle East a zone free from weapons of mass destruction. In particular, it should implement paragraph 14 of Security Council resolution 687 (1991), which considers Iraq's disarmament a step towards establishing in the Middle East a zone free from weapons of mass destruction. So far the United Nations has taken no steps in that direction. In conclusion, the realization of the concepts of justice, democracy and development throughout the world is subject to the fair democratization of international organizations, in particular the United Nations. These concepts can be achieved only through carrying out an interrelated series of administrative, structural and political reforms of the United Nations, its agencies and organs so that it can shoulder its responsibilities under the Charter, primarily its responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security.May I first congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election to this responsible position. I am sure that your vast knowledge and experience are a guarantee of the success of this session. I avail myself of this opportunity to express my most sincere congratulations also to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his contribution to strengthening the role of the United Nations in line with the challenges of the modern world. I am going to spare the Assembly the review of this year's international developments that it probably anticipated, because I come from a region that has generated enough bad news and is still the focus of world attention. Some of the developments in our region were not the result of human will. The earthquakes in Turkey and Greece, which claimed tens of thousands of victims, shook the world. Regrettably, man-made disasters have taken a high toll on our region. The war in Kosovo, the fourth in a row in the former Yugoslavia, has left in its wake a comparable trail of tragedies. Now that the war is over, there are two things we must do: as soon as possible, repair the damage and alleviate the trauma it has inflicted, and build an infrastructure of security and prosperity that precludes any future repetition of such tragic events. The international community has in the past set itself similar ambitious tasks. This time, I hope, the experience it has gained has reached the critical mass needed for the achievement of lasting peace settlements in conflict areas. The consequences of the Kosovo crisis have spilled over the borders of the region. That is why I find it worthwhile to share with the Assembly some conclusions about what was, hopefully, the last war in the Balkans. With the adoption of Security Council resolution 1244 (1999), the world community has endorsed the political end of the system established by the cold war. That resolution reflected the new international status quo and the understanding that has grown during the past 10 years of the importance of individual security. Today, the rights and dignity of the human individual, civil freedoms and the international rule of law override even the sovereignty of States. This calls for a new responsibility on the part of the international community for their protection. The resolution also showed the commitment of Security Council members to international stability. Paradoxical as it may sound, the Kosovo crisis has served as a catalyst of post-bipolar relations and of a new type of political dialogue among States. Significantly, for the first time since the Second World War, four permanent Security Council members are participating in one force — KFOR. Furthermore, they have been involved in peacekeeping operations — something that would have been unthinkable 10 years ago. The Kosovo crisis has also highlighted the need for change within the United Nations system itself. For example, the world Organization is in serious need of a mechanism for compensating neighbouring States for damage caused by international intervention or sanctions. I raise this issue not only because of the losses sustained by my country during the past eight years from the embargo against Iraq and because of the military conflicts in the former Yugoslavia, but also because this will increase the efficiency and boost the image of the United Nations. It will certainly improve the credibility of United Nations-led operations and provide better motivation for individual countries to participate. On the other hand, the crisis in Kosovo promoted a new type of relations among international organizations in respect of the protection of human rights. As a result of the crisis, a new kind of interface has been born between the United Nations and the regional organizations in Europe, such as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the European Union and regional initiatives such as the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe. This has strengthened the role of the United Nations on that continent. Today, the Balkan people expect the international community to show the same commitment to the future of the region as it did during the crisis. Threats to peace and security should cease to be the only international mobilizing factor, and we must act towards this end. I am convinced that the developments in the former Yugoslavia have not been due to some peculiar Balkan mentality or to any historic predestination. Half a century ago, Western Europe was embroiled in wars that were no less bloody. The difference is that after the Second World War the nations of Western Europe were rescued at the same time from fascism and communism. This helped them attain a democratic and economic homogeneity that, in turn, enabled victors and vanquished alike to set aside their differences and build their present prosperity while respecting human rights and protecting their national identity. Unfortunately, a different lot fell to the countries of South-Eastern Europe after the Second World War. States like Greece and Turkey, both NATO members, preserved and built up their potential for liberal-democratic development and a free market, and the rest of the States in the region were forced to become a part of the Soviet communist system. Today, 10 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, the Balkans still lack democratic homogeneity. This has been a source of tensions, which, translated into ethnic hatred, are the favoured tool of any totalitarian regime attempting to cling to power. But I am sure it is wrong to apply a common denominator to the whole region. Today Bulgaria, as well as most of the Balkan States, is a country with a working democracy, a free market economy and the rule of law. An earlier democratic homogenization of South- Eastern Europe can be achieved only if the vision for our countries' integration with the rest of the European States is shared by both the Balkan nations and the people of Western Europe. Efforts and perseverance to this end are the safest guarantee for converting the whole of Europe into a continent of peace, stability and prosperity. This common European vision fully applies to the future Yugoslavia. There is hardly any country that has a higher stake in Yugoslavia's earliest possible integration in the family of democratic Balkan States than Bulgaria. I cannot but share here the concern of the world community at the continuing ethnic tensions in Kosovo, which distance us from the desired state of peace and ethnic tolerance. Six months ago I firmly supported NATO's operation, designed to end ethnic violence against the Albanian population in Kosovo. Today, just as firmly, I oppose ethnic violence against the Serb population in that province. The Balkans have paid a high price for peace in Kosovo. Today the region needs direct assistance for its reconstruction. The priority beneficiaries should clearly be 2 the hardest-hit countries and areas. Nonetheless, rather than discussing figures and reparations, I believe it would be more productive for both the Balkans and the world to adopt a clear vision for the future of South-Eastern Europe. This future has no alternative but the transformation of the Balkans into an integral part of a united Europe of the next century. The General Assembly is the right forum to discuss the issue of how this can be done. The path leads through the direct rehabilitation and reconstruction of the Balkans — the best form of assistance for our region being “help for self-help”. The Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe can provide the necessary framework. We are convinced that the economic prosperity of the region is a vital condition for achieving political stability. We need infrastructure and strategic investment that generate and guarantee more security than any political dialogue. We need the promotion of trade and a maximum involvement of the economic potential of our countries in the reconstruction effort. This will encourage them to cooperate with each other, while opening up the region and transforming it into a natural, organic part of Europe, rather than isolating it. The crisis in Kosovo will be long over before its effects, such as the blockage of the Danube to shipping, have been eliminated. The international waterway should not become a new line of conflict; we should help it play its natural role of a link rather than allow it to act as a dividing line across Europe. The issue I am raising at this point concerns both the economic damage that has been caused and the very principles of the European architecture since the end of the crisis in Kosovo. The location of the Balkans at a crossroads has been a curse for its people in the past; in today's globalized world, it is our greatest blessing. The Balkans should serve as a link between Western Europe and Central Asia, the Caucasus and the Caspian Sea. It is one of the most promising regions for the coming century. A case in point is the restoration of the historic silk road, which crosses the whole of Asia and links it to Europe. Restoration will entail huge infrastructure projects and investment which in turn could improve the quality of life of whole nations and regions. The Balkan nations have already demonstrated a willingness to adopt a new approach in their relations with one another. The various forms of aid which neighbouring States generously offered each other in response to the recent natural disasters were a positive new sign. Another significant fact is the formation of the multinational peace force for South-Eastern Europe, staffed jointly by countries that were enemies earlier this century, including during the cold war. It is an honour for my country that the first headquarters of that force is based in Bulgaria. I cannot fail to mention here the success of the trilateral initiatives between Bulgaria, Romania and Greece and between Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey for cooperation in combating organized crime and illegal drugs and arms trafficking. The Kosovo crisis calls for a contemporary rereading of the chronicles of the Balkan wars by all the Balkan peoples: the modern perspective will reveal to them that those wars have done no country in the region any good. The new task facing the political elite is to translate these lessons of history into a lasting commitment to peace and cooperation. Having paid such a high price in suffering and fear, it would be a pity if we failed to learn from our experience. In conclusion, I reiterate my country's willingness to cooperate with and contribute actively to the joint efforts of all Member States to streamline the United Nations, an Organization with a key role in maintaining international peace and security and achieving the objectives of sustainable development in the coming century.  Allow me first to congratulate the President most sincerely on his election to the presidency of the fifty—fourth session of the General Assembly. I take this opportunity to assure him of the full support of the Hungarian delegation in the exercise of his responsibilities as the head of our Assembly. Humanity has reached the threshold of the twenty—first century. Therefore, no Member State can remain indifferent to the way in which we discharge our tasks at this session, held as the twentieth century ends. One of the most urgent tasks of States and international organizations at the turn of the century is to end the ever—growing disparities between the various regions of the world. In this regard, special attention 27 should be paid to the African continent, which is fraught with various crises and conflicts. The persistence of poverty, still one of our major challenges, is exacerbated by the process of globalization. Inequality is a major source of the emergence and proliferation of all kinds of extremism and of intolerance, with its concomitant violence, which threaten the very foundations of contemporary civilization. At the dawn of this new century, we are called upon to exploit further the advantages of globalization, a salient feature of our era, while being aware of the attendant risks. All of us in the international community must become aware of the paramount importance of dealing adequately with global problems, such as the growing gap between the levels of economic development; environmental degradation; the dangers posed by organized crime; uncontrolled migration; disease and so on. In this context, we must take note of the relationship between globalization and regional integration. Integration can adjust itself to the process of globalization, draw the lessons of the process's inevitable consequences, absorb its related risks and assist the struggle against transboundary scourges, thereby becoming the engine of the universal system of economic cooperation. Most conflicts today are not between States, but within States, essentially as major ethnic or religious confrontations that too often lead to humanitarian crises of unprecedented dimensions. Entire ethnic groups and communities and national and linguistic minorities are falling victim to “ethnic cleansing”. Dictatorial regimes do not hesitate to resort to nationalist extremism and xenophobia, and to unspeakable violence, exterminating hundreds of thousands of people, terrorizing others in their ancestral lands and expelling millions of people from their homes. We cannot remain indifferent to such acts. A great debate is therefore going on in the international arena, as demonstrated in this very Hall, about how the world should react to tragic situations involving massive and flagrant violations of human rights at a time when, for all kinds of reasons, our world Organization finds itself paralysed. We are convinced that, given the terrible upheavals we are witnessing throughout the world, the international community cannot fail to respond effectively to this major present-day challenge. The traditional concept of the principle of national sovereignty is undergoing a progressive evolution in inter- State relations and within multilateral organizations. Because of developments in the area of international law, national sovereignty is becoming less acceptable as a justification for Governments in cases of serious violations within their countries of universally recognized international legal standards. As the Secretary-General rightly said, in our era of globalization the collective interest represents national interests. Fortunately, today the principles of good governance are prevailing and flourishing in an ever-growing number of countries. In the immediate vicinity of my country, a regime based on extreme nationalism has sparked four wars in the last decade. The international community, albeit after hesitation and delay, took the necessary measures. In the case of Kosovo, it did so with great resolve and consistency. In the wake of the action undertaken to defend universally recognized values, and thanks to the presence of international military forces and the United Nations mission, a fragile peace reigns today in that martyred region, and considerable, increasingly effective efforts are being deployed there with a view to establish peace and stability. In the light of the events of the past decade in this part of Europe, let us state clearly and unambiguously that it would be pointless to expect democratization in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia if things remain unchanged in Belgrade. However, a new Serbia, emerging from tragedy and destruction, free of the burdens of the past, would no doubt be able to rely on the understanding and effective assistance of the international community. In this context, we would underscore the importance of the implementation of the judgments of the International Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia. The Stability Pact, devised with a view to responding to the needs of the countries of South-Eastern Europe, will play a primary role in the rehabilitation and development of the region. It will also contribute to promoting respect for democratic standards and human rights by proposing, inter alia, institutional arrangements aimed at improving relations between majority and minority communities within the region. The international community is again being put to the test in the case of East Timor. Hungary shares the profound concerns of all nations in the wake of recent events, which represent a brutal violation of the right of the people of that country to self-determination. The atrocities committed against the civilian population of East Timor represent a serious blow to human rights. Those responsible for these acts will be brought to justice. 28 We welcome the decision of the Security Council authorizing the deployment to East Timor of a multinational force to restore peace and security on the island as well as the enactment of all necessary measures for the implementation of that force's mandate. The tragic events in Kosovo and East Timor only confirm the universality of human rights and the importance of a timely resolution of conflict by appropriate means. They also demonstrate the value of harmonious cooperation between the United Nations, regional organizations and particular groups of States, a cooperation that is becoming increasingly important in dealing with the diverse and varied conflicts that are erupting — and, unfortunately, will continue to erupt — throughout the world. Hungary is prepared, with its own means, to take part in this great enterprise of safeguarding and restoring international peace and security. Among the phenomena that threaten peace and security throughout the world, the question of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction will require sustained attention in future. Regional conflicts having nuclear ramifications only aggravate the destabilizing effect of certain crisis areas. Against this backdrop, the pillars of the global non- proliferation system — such as the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, whose Review Conference will be one of the major events on next year's diplomatic calendar, or the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test- Ban Treaty (CTBT) — take on additional significance. We regret that the CTBT has not yet been able to exert its favourable influence on the process of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. We would like here to underscore the responsibility of the 44 States whose ratification is needed for this key instrument to enter into force. My country, as one of the States in question, has already ratified the Treaty and thereby discharged its obligations. The international conference to be convened next October in Vienna is likely to play an important role in speeding up the process leading to the entry into force of this instrument. We would be gratified if those States that have not yet acceded to the Treaty participated in that conference and decided, in the near future, to sign and ratify the Treaty. We would underscore also the need to commence, as soon as possible, negotiations on a fissile material cut-off treaty. The entry into force of the Ottawa Convention on anti-personnel mines could contribute tangibly to resolving the humanitarian, economic and social problems stemming from the massive and irresponsible use of these mines. In that connection, we note with satisfaction the outcome of the Maputo meeting. Hungary was one of the first countries to join the Ottawa process and recently completed the destruction of its stocks of anti-personnel mines. We hope that other countries in the region will follow our example, as this could contribute to the elimination of all of these lethal devices in the crisis area along our southern border. We would also note the importance of speeding up negotiations to conclude a verification protocol annexed to the Biological Weapons Convention. We believe that these negotiations could be completed sometime between now and next summer. As Chairman of the ad hoc Group mandated to draft a verification protocol, Hungary is prepared to contribute to any political initiative that could promote its implementation. I cannot fail to mention the establishment of an International Criminal Court — a deeply significant undertaking. In our view, the Court is an indispensable institution if we are to take action against crimes against humanity and war crimes. The Court will not only bring to justice people who have been accused of serious crimes, but will also act as a deterrent, thereby contributing to the maintenance of regional and international peace and security. We hope that the number of signatures and ratifications of the Rome Statute will continue to grow and that disputed questions relating to the universal acceptance of the Court will be resolved as soon as possible. Acts of terrorism in recent weeks sadly remind us of the great challenge involved in combating this phenomenon. They underscore the importance of making new efforts and the imperative need for concerted international action in this area. We hope that at this session of the General Assembly we will be able to go beyond the universal introduction and complete implementation of international agreements relating to terrorism that are already in force, and move forward the work of finalizing international agreements relating to nuclear terrorism and the prevention of financing for terrorism. The authority and prestige of the United Nations depend to a large extent on the capacity of its Member States to reform the Organization. In the light of the experience of recent years, it is very clear that reform is a long-term process and will be probably consist of various interconnected stages. The achievements thus far, though insufficient in themselves, are valuable elements 29 that must be built upon if we are to go further along this long road leading to the transformation and revitalization of the world Organization, including the reform of the Security Council. What is certain is that if we are to succeed, all Member States, without exception, will have to get to work with a greater sense of commitment. We expect the millennium summit, to be held next year, to give the necessary impetus to the dynamic continuation of United Nations reform. As has been repeated on many occasions, our paramount task today is to make this unique Organization, the United Nations, capable of preserving the values of our civilization in a twenty-first century that promises to be turbulent. At the dawn of the year 2000, which also marks the thousandth anniversary of the foundation of our State, it is up to all of us — Governments, the business world and civil society — to make our planet a decent and habitable place for future generations.  I should like to express my most sincere congratulations to Mr. Gurirab on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at this session. It is significant that his country, which gained independence as a result of the struggle of its people and the successful efforts of this Organization, will be presiding today over this Assembly and will, I am certain, bring its work to a successful conclusion. I extend my congratulations to his predecessor for the commitment with which he conducted his duties. I express our warmest support to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his tireless efforts. He has used his competent political skill, his moral authority and his deep knowledge of the opportunities and limitations of his office to pursue daunting tasks, often working against all odds. My Government fully subscribes to the statement delivered by Ms. Halonen, the Foreign Minister of Finland, on behalf of the European Union, and to the memorandum circulated by the Union. Globalization in the field of information, ideas, the economy, democracy and human rights has been the dominant feature of the last years of our century. Some people fear it; some try to ignore it; a few try to fight it; others try to avoid it. Many welcome it as a creative challenge. We Greeks are among the last category: we thrive on openness, freedom of exchange, freedom of thought, expression and inquiry. We speak the language of dialogue, the language of ideas. That is our tradition. We are proud of that tradition which sparked off the Renaissance and supported the Enlightenment, whose essence was captured by Immanuel Kant's motto sapere aude: dare to think. Globalization challenges us to dare to think the unthinkable in terms of sovereignty, international relations and human rights. But that is not enough: we know we must go beyond it; we must dare to state a vision for our world; we must dare to hope. We take heart that at the end of our century democracy is being celebrated as the universal system of political rule, the only secure basis for legitimacy in the modern world. Experience teaches us that democracy not only institutionalizes freedom but also brings prosperity. Celebrated economist Amartya Sen has conclusively proved that a democratic system of Government is no obstacle to the creation of wealth: development does not 32 require an authoritarian ruler. Sen has observed that no substantial famine has ever occurred in any country with a democratic form of government and a relatively free press. We take heart from the fact that more States claim to be democratic now than ever before in human history, and we are firmly committed to seeing this trend expand. Slowly but surely, we are observing the globalization of democracy, and we dare to hope. Nevertheless, our challenges and political dilemmas are formidable. We need to globalize peace. We watch in awe as Israelis and Palestinians shake hands once again. The peace might be local, but our pride is international. Equally, when watching India and Pakistan, we dare to hope for non-proliferation. We cringe as pictures of war come out of Africa. We cannot hope for peace yet shut our eyes to war. We need to globalize human rights. Do we apply the same standards everywhere, from Kosovo and East Timor to Cyprus and Rwanda? We need to globalize our concept of rights pertaining to human beings. We understand multinationals that support human rights to protect their investments, but who will protect individuals who seek protection from the indignities of the world market? We need to globalize ethics. From Kosovo to East Timor we have bowed our heads, for we are still ill- equipped to deal with global ethical dilemmas such as those mentioned by the Secretary-General. Can human suffering be subordinated to sovereignty? Can we afford to be inconsistent in the application of military intervention? Is it right to impose trade sanctions on Governments that violate international rules, at the expense of their innocent populations? We seek to globalize values. Technological innovation is calling into question some of our most deeply felt beliefs. From cloning to brain transplants, scientists now face dilemmas that have global implications. We must make sure that fear does not inhibit scientific development, but also that curiosity does not inhibit civility. We need to globalize wealth. The growing gap between rich and poor countries has marginalized a large segment of the world's population and led to dangerous social problems, from illegal immigration to drug trafficking, terrorism, child labour and sexual exploitation. In an effort to contribute what little we can, Greece decided to increase its official development assistance by an annual average of 27 per cent over a five-year plan, targeting in particular sub-Saharan Africa. How can we hope to face these challenges if the people of this world do not share a basic education and do not enjoy basic health? While the electronic media have minimized the restrictions of borders in the transfer of resources, wealth and information, democratic institutions and social policies remain confined within the borders of nations. We cannot wait for democracy to spread at this pace: we need a faster cure. We need to confront this global democratic deficit by supporting global democratic institutions. Beyond the globalization of democracy, I call for the democratization of globalism. This is a vision worthy of the United Nations. We seek a United Nations that is an active centre for peace and justice, a centre for the improvement of the life of each individual on this Earth. We expect a United Nations to respond to our needs for global ethics and global values. We believe in a strong United Nations that will act swiftly and effectively against those who wage war, harbour terrorism and destroy our planet. We aspire to a United Nations which will become the centre for democratic thinking and democratic practice throughout our world. May these United Nations, on our behalf, develop a culture of dialogue and a dialogue of cultures. For this is the essence of democratic politics: not a clash of different civilizations, but an educative dialogue that allows all to take part. We must educate each other to find peaceful and democratic ways to confront our challenges. This is a task for the United Nations. We yield to its authority as the only forum able to democratize the globalization process. We call for all Member States to provide the United Nations with the authority and the means to perform its duties. Greece will do so. As our Ghanaian colleague said yesterday, we continue to ask more of the United Nations, and yet we continue to endow it with fewer resources. We feel that following the important reforms of the Secretariat, the time has come to expand this Organization's authority, responsibility and budget. Do we dare allow this Organization to hope? In Greece we do. My country believes in strengthening the United Nations, but it also believes in doing its own work, on the ground, in the region. Uri Savir, the Israeli negotiator in Oslo, has said that peacemaking is a gradual revolution that moves from hostility to a desired conciliation, a 33 collection of moments in which a new trend is set in motion. Together with the International Olympic Committee, Greece has proposed the creation of such a moment — a global moment: we would like to see the revival of the ancient Greek tradition of the Olympic truce. We hope that this Assembly, which has unanimously endorsed that project, will give its full support to the observance of the Olympic truce during the games of the year 2000 in Sydney, Australia, in Athens in 2004 and at all future Olympics, so that the event may become a momentous festival of excellence, cross-cultural dialogue and peace in our global village. From Cyprus to Bosnia, a “collection of moments” is providing a ray of hope that, one day, a united Balkans and South-Eastern Europe will belong to a united Europe: a family of nations, a bouquet of cultures, a kaleidoscope of ethnicities, where diversity is our strength and where borders are so profoundly respected that they cease to exist. Can we dare see that far? Do we dare not to? We dare to hope. Turning first to Cyprus: following the declaration on Cyprus by the leaders of the Group of Eight and Security Council resolutions 1250 (1999) and 1251 (1999) of last June, there is hope that a new initiative may break the deadlock. Just as we envision a multicultural Balkans, we are striving to see Cyprus as a federal State with a single sovereignty and a single citizenship, a united, demilitarized, independent country with its territorial integrity safe from encroachments and with no foreign troops on its soil. The accession of Cyprus to the European Union would certainly benefit both communities living on the island. We invite the Turkish Cypriots, in the spirit of a newfound friendship between Greeks and Turks, to grab this historical opportunity. Let us break down the last “Berlin wall”, which artificially divides those two peoples. Let us show the world and our children that, yes, we can live together in peace and harmony with respect for human rights and democratic principles, within a wider European family. The tragic events in Kosovo will be remembered for acts of brutal ethnic cleansing and a military intervention that ensued without the authorization of the Security Council. Today, I encounter individuals who, under pressure to “close the case of the Balkans”, opt to redraw the maps, believing that ethnic isolation, constructing new walls and barriers between our peoples of the region, will solve our problems. But it can only compound our problems. I assure the Assembly that there is no short path, no lazy road if you will, to lasting peace in the Balkans. Consistent with our policy in our region is our belief that borders are sacrosanct. But within them we must do our utmost to protect minorities, democratic procedures and human rights. We must strive to develop the three pillars of the Stability Pact for South-eastern Europe: democracy, security and reconstruction. We need to build democratic institutions, judicial and financial systems, competitive business and free media, things we often take for granted. We need to be aggressive in ensuring that all forms of likely threat to security within and among our countries are dealt with directly, openly and with vigour. The protection of minorities is of fundamental importance. We need, as the Secretary-General has said, a new commitment to the prevention of conflict. We need to provide basic economic help that will fight against the poverty and degradation that lead to ethnic and religious fanaticism. But more important, we need a total Balkan approach. When I say “total”, I mean a coherent and consistent approach by the international community. The Balkans are badly served by mixed signals. Greece has drawn for itself a creative and effective role in the region. Greece supports all efforts to deepen democracy in the region. A total Balkan approach to democracy, security and reconstruction will pave the way for our neighbours to enter the European Union. Yugoslavia, of course, is also an integral part of this total Balkan approach. So too are Greece's bilateral and trilateral contacts of very close cooperation with Albania, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Bulgaria and Romania. We worked closely together during the recent Kosovo crisis for stability in the region and in providing humanitarian aid to Kosovo refugees. We believe that in our region there are no good or bad people, just good and bad practices. We have delivered and continue to deliver humanitarian assistance, as major humanitarian problems remain in many parts of Yugoslavia, and peacekeeping forces. We have conducted multilateral diplomacy, and we have promoted every effort that adheres to principles I have just stated without discrimination. Yes, in the total Balkan approach there is room for both the Albanian and the Serbian people. We ask them to dare to have a vision, the same vision: that, one by one, each Balkan country will become part of a united democratic Europe. 34 If the road to peace is indeed made up of a collection of moments, then I also dare hope for our relations with Turkey. My Turkish counterpart, Ismail Cem, and I have been engaged in careful diplomacy for many months. We recently inaugurated discussion committees to address a number of bilateral concerns, including trade, tourism, the environment and security, where we feel our two countries have much to gain from mutual cooperation. Peoples' aspirations for the principles of democracy, security and prosperity can overcome historical strife. In this democratic spirit, we believe that our security is bound by the stability in the region; that our neighbours' strength is our own strength. From the outset, therefore, Greece shared with Turkey the vision that one day Turkey would become a worthy member of a united Europe. But we recognize today that our role needs to be to lead the process. The terrible earthquakes that shook both our countries have accelerated that process. Spontaneous and dramatic acts of fraternity and solidarity between our citizens short- circuited elaborate diplomatic strategies and exerted powerful pressure on our Governments to move ahead boldly. I for one shall never forget the sweat, the tears and the genuine expressions of solidarity and friendship shared by so many non-governmental organizations, and particularly by Greek and Turkish rescue workers from the Disaster Management Special Unit (EMAK) and the Turkish Search and Rescue Team (AKUT), sifting through the rubble of buildings destroyed by the earthquakes, looking for survivors. These people did not wait for us to act. Their actions globalize democracy, human solidarity and peace. That is one more lesson for democracy. International relations, humanitarianism, peace and cooperation have much to gain if we allow for citizens' diplomacy and give our full support to constructive roles for non-governmental organizations. Building on this unique experience, in our first joint act as members of this Organization, I join hands today with my Turkish counterpart, Ismail Cem. I join hands with him to announce to the Assembly the establishment of a joint stand-by disaster response unit composed of contingents drawn from governmental and non- governmental agencies of both countries, Greece and Turkey, to reinforce the United Nations capacity in this field. Let me take this opportunity to extend my heartfelt condolences to the victims of the recent disastrous earthquake in Taiwan, and to their families. A comprehensive and methodical approach to dealing with natural disasters is in line with the recent statement by the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, that some major risk reduction and disaster prevention programmes require levels of funding that many poor countries simply cannot afford. In this Assembly, great visions founded on a strong sense of realism have helped to make the world more democratic, safer, and a little less painful for those in need. In Greece and south-east Europe, similar visions are helping to build democratic institutions, cement peace and pave the way to prosperity. There simply is no truth in the saying that we in the Balkans are trapped, that we have produced more history than we can consume and that we are prisoners of past conflicts and hatreds. History is not duress unless one makes it so. The challenge to every new generation of Greeks, and the challenge to our neighbours, is to learn from our history, and not to become slaves to it. We are building a new collective vision for the region, slowly but surely. We look forward to the day when Belgrade and Pristina will be an easy bus ride away, when Jerusalem and Damascus, Athens and Ankara and, of course, the two parts of divided Nicosia, will no longer be separated by fear and suspicion, but will be joined in peace. Perhaps that day is still far away but, as a Chinese proverb has it, a journey of a thousand miles begins with one small step. History is not compulsion unless one makes it so. The challenge to every new generation of Greeks, the challenge to our neighbours, is to learn from our history rather than become slaves to it. We are building a new collective vision for the region, slowly but surely. We look forward to the day when Belgrade and Pristina will be an easy bus ride away from each other, when Jerusalem and Damascus, Athens and Ankara and, of course, the two parts of divided Nicosia, will no longer be separated by fear and suspicion, but be joined in peace. Perhaps that day is still far away, but as a Chinese proverb has it, a journey of a thousand miles begins with one small step. This step we dared take this year. We dared to imagine the world at the end of a thousand miles. Rigas Fereos, a prominent Greek revolutionary, wrote in a constitution for the Balkans more than two centuries ago, 35 “All should be equal with equal rights without prejudice in the Balkans: Christian, Muslim and Jew, Albanian, Slav, Romanian, Bulgarian, Greek, Turk, Armenian, from Bosnia to Arabia.” Today, 100 days before the next millennium, we commit ourselves to keep walking in this direction of a new hope and vision for our world. As they say in Latin America, se hace camino al andar.  It is an honour and a pleasure for me to take the floor once again before this Assembly. At the outset I would like to congratulate the President on his brilliant election to lead our work at this session. His election is an unparalleled tribute to all of Africa and particularly to his fraternal country, Namibia, which today sees one of its sons presiding over the destinies of this fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. We are confident that his qualities as an eminent diplomat and his great experience guarantee the success of our work. I would also like to take this opportunity to pay glowing tribute to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Didier Opertti, for the devotion and the ability with which he conducted the previous session. At the same time, allow me to express appreciation for the full value of the efforts deployed by our Secretary- General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, in the service of our Organization. The evidence he gives of an untiring will and of constant dedication to the human cause, especially in the field of peace, deserve saluting, and I would like to express all of our gratitude to him. At the same time, I would like to wholeheartedly welcome the delegations of the Republics of Kiribati and Nauru and of the Kingdom of Tonga, and to express to all of them our congratulations on their having been admitted to the great family of the United Nations. The time has come to assess the century that is coming to a close and to see together how we are going to face the challenges of the next millennium — a millennium that we hope will be one of peace and prosperity, bringing hope to our peoples and our countries. This is the wish of the Comorien people for all the nations of the world. But how can we realize this wish? Our Organization offers the best framework for facing the challenges of the third millennium, but it will need to be supported by a more active commitment on our part, a greater willingness to face problems and a real will to deal with them — without excessive fervour or uncertainty — and to resolve them rationally. With such will we can achieve the objectives of the founders of our Organization in the field of peace, justice and progress. Achieving a disarmed world, which will at the same time guarantee peace, social justice and progress, is the fundamental purpose of our Organization. In addition, we all hoped that the 1990s would be the decade of peace and solidarity among nations, because certain positive aspects led us to expect this. The various day-to-day 15 realities we have experienced unfortunately are reviving our fears that the next millennium will begin in uncertainty about the future of humanity. In fact, the wars that are tearing our continents apart, the grave violations of human rights, the extreme poverty to which many peoples have been reduced and which reveals the enormous disparities between the social strata, and the recent tragedies such as that in Kosovo make us fear the worst and require us to be more vigilant. Our Organization, the efforts of which we salute, must persevere in the search for solutions for eliminating the major and various problems besetting the world today. Human rights has always been an essential concern of our Organization. Thus, how can we not deplore that, at the threshold of the next millennium, humanity is still witnessing flagrant violations of fundamental rights. It is because of this major concern that I would like to salute here the efforts to establish an international criminal court, which, I am certain, will contribute to greater justice. We hope that this court, once it becomes operational, will enjoy all the necessary independence to carry out its functions fully and effectively and to apply the fundamental principles of humanitarian law. With regard to economic issues, we must agree that economic recovery is not yet in sight for many countries, especially those suffering from armed conflicts. Certainly many agreements emerging from international meetings have highlighted the special attention that must be paid to the problems of developing countries. But we must insist further on this and demand that genuine solidarity with these countries be shown. Through such solidarity positive action could be mobilized. With regard to Africa, in general it continues to be marked by several things. First, its external debt has become a major obstacle to development, especially because financial flows are often used for debt servicing rather than for promoting the expansion of the economy and sustainable development. Also, the level of debt has discouraged domestic and foreign investment. Secondly, the continent is heavily scarred by wars which have sharply checked development. Thirdly, global trade practices have reduced the commercial prospects of the continent. Fourthly, the continent is to some extent excluded from the global information revolution. In Africa the basic education system is generally the most limited, the effects of poverty are extreme, and the health system needs reforming. To create the necessary conditions to solve these different problems which are hampering the development of our African countries, national, regional and international initiatives must be undertaken, encouraged and supported by the international community. A genuine partnership among African countries must be the basis for solid and effective cooperation that allows these countries to share their experiences and promotes the rapid integration of regional economies. In the context of this need for South-South cooperation, my country welcomed most favourably the holding of the special summit in Sirte, which revealed once again the solidarity of African States and their support for Libya, a brother country. We believe that the conditions are now in place for the total and final lifting of the embargo imposed on that country. The summit also put in place new rules to improve the structures of the Organization of African Unity, with a view to an effective union of its countries through the strengthening of security and cooperation arrangements. In this regard the Sirte summit continues to serve as a point of reference, and we hope its objectives will be achieved. I also take this opportunity to express our thanks to the Government of Libya for the generosity it showed to certain African countries, allowing them to honour their commitments to the pan-African organization. Moreover, the international community, especially the international financial institutions, must support these national and regional efforts by facilitating their access to markets and investments, reducing debt constraints and allowing developing countries to benefit from new trade agreements. Like all developing countries, the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros also faces enormous difficulties. The regrettable events that have unfolded there since March 1997 have further weakened an economy that was already in decline and beset by considerable deficits in public finance; a chronic deficit in the balance of payments; a large foreign debt; and strong competition for export resources by synthetic products. This situation is of great concern to the Government which I have the honour to represent. It is firmly engaged in a process of development through the establishment of solid bases for the rule of law and the adoption of a policy of rehabilitation and economic and political recovery through the strict management of public finances and the promotion of morality in administrative practices 16 and political customs. This rehabilitation policy should allow the State to fulfil its priority domestic commitments domestically and to honour its commitments to its foreign partners. In addition, other objectives to complement this good governance policy are being considered by the current Government. They include respect for human rights; the improvement of social policies and hence of the efficacy of health and education services for all; the protection of children and women; the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child; the advancement and mainstreaming of women; guaranteed autonomy for the judiciary; freedom of the press; and so on. To encourage private investment and promote the introduction of new technology and foreign capital, opportunities have been opened to domestic and foreign investors by suppressing constraints on approvals of foreign investments. Furthermore, aware of the enormous contribution South-South cooperation makes to development by offering the opportunity to exploit the economic prosperity of other regions, the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros must respond to the two-fold necessity of participating fully in the globalization process and of steadfastly prospering in its own regional and subregional environment. That is why it is striving further to consolidate its participation in the Indian Ocean Commission and planning to join other groups of the region. These endeavours, undertaken since the accession to power of the current Government, may well be insufficient, but they constitute a serious and essential foundation, and a guarantee of in-depth reform. The President returned to the Chair. After this general summary, I would be remiss if I failed to report the prevailing political situation in the Comoros. My country is experiencing a secessionist crisis in the sister island of Anjouan, which has shaken the very foundations of the Republic and threatened its unity, territorial integrity and, above all, the peace and tolerance that have always characterized relations among the inhabitants of our four islands. My country’s Government cannot endorse secession or independence, which could dislocate the Comoros, whose unity and social coherence are the only guarantees for the evolution of harmonious social and economic development. Three inter-island conferences have been held under the auspices of the OAU and the League of Arab States with a view to rapidly settling this crisis. The most recent, held in Antananarivo, Madagascar, in April, resulted in an agreement to establish a new institutional framework to meet the aspirations of the Comorians, guarantee unity and territorial integrity, and give each island greater autonomy. In this respect, I have the pleasant duty once again to convey our sincere thanks to the Malagasy authorities, not only for having held that important meeting on the sisterly large island, but also for having established conditions conducive to our debate. At the conference, the lack of cooperation and the intransigence of the representatives of the island of Anjouan — who postponed the signing of the final document — provoked extremist groups among the population of Grande-Comore, where anti-Anjouan riots broke out. The threat of civil war, of hateful “insular cleansing” and the violent and forcible separation of families led the National Development Army, in the face of the inertia of the political authorities, to act to avoid the worse by assuming control of the country. A transition Government was immediately formed to restore and guarantee civil peace and to create new republican and democratic institutions to ensure greater autonomy for the islands, in compliance with the Antananarivo agreement. Thus, the consolidation of the Antananarivo agreement remains a Government priority and we are doing everything possible to establish the conditions essential to the implementation of the agreement. In the context of the settlement of the crisis, a frank, direct and constructive dialogue has been established for the first time between the central authorities and the Anjouan separatists. In this respect, a joint communiqué signed on the Comorian island of Mohéli in July by the leaders of the two parties to the summit. I wish to stress that Comorians view this act as a step towards the settlement of the crisis. In his meetings with Comorians, the Head of State, Mr. Azali Assoumani, is seeking the necessary breakthrough to achieve an honourable peace to the benefit of all that unites us. We hope that the ratification of this agreement by our Anjouan brethren will not be long in coming so that the process may continue in the interests of the united Comorian people. The Comorian Government has begun in-depth reflection in order to draft the fundamental texts to govern the future union of the Comoros. The next step is very crucial in order to implement the published electoral timetable, which anticipates, inter alia, a popular referendum on the constitution and mayoral, legislative and presidential elections. 17 The Comorian Government welcomed the relevant resolutions adopted by the OAU at its thirty-fifth Summit in Algiers; the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the Organization of the Islamic Conference at their most recent Conference in Ouagadougou; the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the League of Arab States at their 112th session in Cairo (A/50/864/Annex II, res. 1) and the Permanent Council of French-speaking Countries, meeting in Paris, in the framework of the speedy establishment of constitutional order and of the settlement of the separatist crisis. To that end, we invite all people of good will and friendly, brotherly and neighbour countries, as well as organizations, to come see with their own eyes the process that has been launched and to contribute to the consolidation of democracy and the rule of law in the Comoros. Nevertheless, we remain concerned by the fact that holding elections in Anjouan would be tantamount to recognizing secession or ratifying independence. Indeed, such a formula is contrary to the principle of unity of the country, the spirit of the Antananarivo agreement and the very principles of the OAU, the sponsor of the agreement. In this regard, we invite the OAU and the entire international community to join us in the consideration necessary to overcome this dilemma. In this vein, I should also like to take this opportunity to express the sympathy and profound gratitude of the people and the Government of the Comoros to the countries of the region, especially South Africa and Madagascar; friendly countries such as France and Egypt; and institutions such as the OAU, the League of Arab States, the International Organization of La Francophonie and the European Union, which have never ceased attaching their special interest to this problem. I should like to tell them once again that the people of the Comoros hopes to be able to rely on them, again and always, to find a speedy solution to this crisis. The Anjouan crisis, in the view of Comorians, is all the more threatening to unity, peace and love among them as it is added to a painful 24-year-old problem, that of the Comorian island of Mayotte. The Assembly will understand the helplessness of a people threatened with dispersion, following the amputation of part of the territory of its country, Mayotte, and witnessing an attempt by a sister island to leave the Comorian union. This crisis has revived the pain of the Comoros people caused by the problem of Mayotte, which still shows no signs of being resolved. Our Organization, which is regularly seized of this question, has always recognized that Mayotte belongs to the Comoros and has adopted resolutions in favour of the integration of the island into its natural family. The Comorian Government, faithful to the fundamental principles of the Charter of our Organization, continues to give priority to dialogue to resolve this problem. It is with deep respect for these principles that it appeals to France, a country with which the Comoros has for long had close ties of friendship and cooperation, to consider opening a direct, constructive dialogue to find a rapid, negotiated solution to this unfortunate dispute. My country is very concerned about the situation in the Middle East. It hopes that the new Israeli Administration will commit itself more to the peace process begun on 4 September at Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, for a lasting, fair and harmonious resolution of the Israel- Palestine crisis. We also hope that the other problems, regarding Syria and Lebanon, will soon be settled. The question of Jammu and Kashmir continues to be of concern to us. We appeal to India and Pakistan to show restraint in order to prevent any escalation in the region. My country welcomes the diplomatic initiatives of the United Nations which made it possible for peace to be restored to Kosovo and East Timor. We also welcome the Lomé Peace Agreement of 7 July 1999, with regard to the Sierra Leone conflict; the Abuja Agreement and its additional protocols regarding the conflict in Guinea-Bissau; and the Lusaka ceasefire agreement, signed on 10 July 1999 by the parties to the conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Having noted these hopes reasons for hope, we cannot forget the situation in Angola and Somalia and the situation prevailing between Ethiopia and Eritrea, where there are no signs of a solution. The efforts made by the OAU should be supported by our Organization in order to achieve peace and reconciliation in these fraternal countries. The ideals of peace, security and development are the responsibility of the international community, which must work to make them a reality. Each of us must contribute to ensure these values and to build a more human, peaceful and just world which is a harbinger of hope for future generations. 18  By way of introduction, let me congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly and wish you every success in the execution of your important functions. I would like to use this opportunity also to express thanks to your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti of Uruguay, for his responsible work and for the efforts he has devoted to United Nations activities throughout the year. The Czech Republic is very pleased that after five years the Assembly again has an opportunity to welcome new United Nations Members — Nauru, Kiribati and Tonga. This further expansion of the United Nations family is evidence of its increasingly universal nature, which the Czech Republic unequivocally supports. This year marks an important milestone for the Czech Republic, which this past spring became a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), together with Hungary and Poland. Recalling Article 1 of the Washington Treaty, which refers to the United Nations Charter and commits its members to address international conflicts by peaceful means, we believe that this historic first enlargement of the Alliance following the end of the cold war will contribute to the enhancement of stability and security, and do so not only in our region. We support NATO’s continued enlargement through the inclusion of other countries, and we are convinced that this first step will also have a motivating and mobilizing character for them. NATO’s new strategic concept emphasizes its broad approach to security issues; it envisages the necessity of not only facing military risks but also of monitoring economic, social, environmental and political issues that may disrupt security and stability. NATO has demonstrated that it has both the functional mechanisms for crisis management and the capacities to manage humanitarian crises. However, there is an obvious need for the Alliance’s potential to be fully utilized by an effective cooperation with the United Nations, which has the ability to oversee the restoration of civil administration and infrastructure. It is this close cooperation that underlines the fact that our commitment to peace is as strong as our will to challenge gross violations of human rights by military means. And, of course, the concept of regional security in Europe cannot be imagined without NATO’s cooperating also with the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), the Western European Union or the Council of Europe. Because development in Europe is profoundly influenced by ever-deeper integration, the successful completion of the long-term process of our country’s entry into the European Union is currently the highest- priority goal for Czech foreign policy. Having started accession talks in the spring of last year, the Czech Republic is promoting political dialogue with the European Union member States and associated countries. Through our active involvement in the Common Foreign and Security Policy, we are assuming our share of responsibility for development in Europe and the world, obviously, to date, within the restrictive framework of our status as an associated country. We attach major importance to the social and environmental dimensions of European integration. We are fully aware that the importance of these dimensions will continue to increase in order to keep up with the advancement of globalization. The disintegration of the bipolar world has brought about a transition from confrontation to cooperation given rise to efforts to create a new security architecture, and led to integration processes, particularly on the European continent. However, it has also brought about the resurgence of dormant threats and the emergence of new centres of instability. The Kosovo tragedy and other crises have brought us closer to recognizing the importance of the principle of the personal security of human beings and its guarantees as a precondition of peace and security in the world. The fact that the worst atrocities, which have nothing in common with the civilized world, are still 46 being committed at the end of the twentieth century makes this recognition all the more sad and alarming. In this context, the Czech Republic would express its appreciation and support for the work of the International Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia. The Czech Republic is convinced that the international community’s efforts should result in just punishment for all the atrocities committed. The United Kingdom’s Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs, Robin Cook, correctly argued here that we must counter the culture of impunity. All criminals should be held to account. As Secretary- General Kofi Annan said, massive and systematic violations of human rights should not be allowed to stand, wherever they may take place. Kosovo will be the benchmark for the success achieved by international institutions. Kosovo is now in a period when it is necessary to defend peace, a period in which to achieve political stability and democratization, economic stabilization and a gradual development of the region. The Czech Republic is interested in the region’s stability in all respects. That is why it participated, in its capacity as the currently presiding country of the Central European Initiative, in the Stability Pact Summit meeting at Sarajevo and why it will be working towards democratization, economic reconstruction and security in the region. We are, of course, fully aware that this is far easier said than done. The obstacles on the road are numerous and enormous. The United Nations plays an irreplaceable role in providing for international peace and security. The peaceful resolution of disputes will undoubtedly continue to be one of the main priorities of the United Nations. The Czech Republic therefore attaches great importance to the use of peacekeeping operations in dealing with crisis situations and supports the efforts directed towards their greater efficiency, particularly as regards their rapid deployment. Speed appears to be the key aspect in many cases. However, the United Nations must also have adequate funding to carry out this demanding role effectively; unfortunately, its financial resources are considerably limited at present because of the fact that some Member States fail to honour their financial obligations. The United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) has been marked by these problems: the Mission was not financially secured to the degree which would have corresponded with the security situation at hand and with the very difficult task of restoring the civil administration in Kosovo. On the other hand, it was probably the most rapidly deployed mission in the history of the United Nations. The importance of UNMIK is shown by the fact that, as the highest civilian authority in Kosovo, it coordinates activities of international regional governmental and non-governmental organizations. The Czech Republic greatly appreciates the positive cooperation between UNMIK and KFOR, although it is evident that the international security forces cannot in the long term replace civilian administration and police forces. A major degree of responsibility lies on the shoulders of the United Nations, and especially on those of the Secretary-General’s Special Representative, Mr. Bernard Kouchner, in Kosovo. I had an opportunity to get to know his difficult task at first hand during my visit to Pristina a few days ago. The Secretary-General’s Special Representative needs the full support of the international community in his efforts, including the transformation of the UCK into a non-military Kosovo protection corps. The Czech Republic obviously supports all steps and measures which may bring about the establishment of a democratic and multi-ethnic society in Kosovo as stipulated by the Washington North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Summit. Unfortunately, during my stay in Kosovo I did not come across any convincing evidence that that vision could really be implemented in any foreseeable future — just the contrary. The diminishing number of Serbs in Kosovo, the continuous threats of murder — even to very old Serbian ladies — the rising influence of a mafia, which Mr. Kouchner told me about, the ever-present spirit of revenge, the lack of trained police forces, the absence of local civil administration, the disease of corruption and rivalry between different sectors of the Kosovo Albanians are just some of the obstacles which have to be dealt with decisively in order to prevent the vision of the future from becoming nothing but a never-fulfilled dream. I wholeheartedly agree with the Secretary-General’s unequivocal statement that commitment to humanitarian action must be universal if it is to be legitimate. This means not only that our commitment to peace and stability cannot end with the cessation of hostilities but that we have to be seen to be objective and even-handed towards all ethnic groups, as well as towards all regions. I am glad to note that the recent argument that “East Timor is not Kosovo” was quietly dropped. The Secretary-General has said that humanity, after all, is indivisible; we have to wholeheartedly agree with him. The Czech Republic intends to continue its involvement in peace operations under the leadership of 47 both the United Nations and regional organizations, as borne out by, among other actions, the operation of Czech units under NATO command in Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as in Kosovo. The first Czech policemen should arrive in Kosovo to join the UNMIK police force within the next five days. The number of police necessary to maintain civil order in Kosovo is now more than double the figure originally estimated, Mr. Kouchner told me. Police officials, not the military, are trained to investigate murders or, even more importantly, to take measures to prevent murders or other grave challenges to law and order. The Czech Republic is also prepared to consider sending military observers to the United Nations peace missions in Sierra Leone and the Democratic Republic of the Congo and, of course, following a recent request we received from Australia and the agreement on the Security Council mandate, also to East Timor. The Czech Republic is concerned about the developments in East Timor. We welcome the fact that after decades, the people of East Timor were given an opportunity to implement their right to self-determination, and we feel very shocked that the results of the referendum led to bloodshed and indiscriminate killings. Indonesia’s acceptance of the United Nations military peacekeeping forces has made us confident that the United Nations will succeed in ensuring peace in that area. Peace and security in crisis-ridden areas are also closely related to humanitarian relief, which is provided as a rule to afflicted civilian populations. A radical deterioration in the security situation may cause a devastating humanitarian crisis, as we have seen in Kosovo. Here, too, there is a need to look at the possibilities of simplifying the United Nations decision-making mechanisms. It is disturbing that, for example, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees did not have sufficient resources and capacities to tackle the humanitarian crisis in that region, which was due mainly to somewhat rigid procedures. One of the most important tasks of the international community is undoubtedly to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and to eliminate them completely. Our aim is still a world without any nuclear weapons. With regard to the forthcoming Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), to be held in the year 2000, the Czech Republic calls for overcoming the stagnation in negotiations on the relevant treaties supporting the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and for developing more positive attitudes, particularly on the part of nuclear countries, which will create a more favourable atmosphere in the disarmament process and lead to the adoption of clear, practical and implementable nuclear disarmament measures in the new millennium. There is no question but that early ratification of the START II Treaty between the United States and Russia would help considerably to revive the disarmament process. We consider the achievement of universal applicability of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) and their speedy ratification a very urgent task. In this respect, we particularly appreciate the CTBT ratification by France and by the United Kingdom. The Czech Republic hopes that the conference of CTBT countries, to be held at Vienna in October this year, will help to accelerate ratification in other countries. We welcome efforts to improve the effectiveness of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, and we continue to express our support for early negotiation of a verification protocol to the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and on Their Destruction. Regarding conventional arms, the Czech Republic supports all measures that contribute to greater transparency. It consistently fulfils its obligations to notify the relevant registers and supports the efforts for an expansion of their procedures which would cover additional types of weapons. The Czech Republic also fully shares the international community’s grave concern over illegal transfers of hand-held and light weapons, and supports all measures required to stop such activities. In the context of the international efforts to limit and ban the use of anti-personnel landmines, I can inform the Assembly with satisfaction that, following last year’s ratification of Protocol II to the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects, the Czech Republic has completed the process of ratifying the Ottawa Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their Destruction and will soon deposit our ratification instrument with the Secretary-General. We support all efforts towards achieving universal applicability of that Convention. We continue to be involved in international activities focused on demining and on providing help to landmine victims. 48 The Czech Republic welcomed the enlargement of the Conference on Disarmament by another five countries, to which I extend warm congratulations. At the same time we express our hope that the Conference on Disarmament will succeed in overcoming the current stagnation and will start talks not only on a treaty banning the production of fissile materials for military purposes but also on other topical problems of arms control and disarmament, including nuclear disarmament, and on security guarantees for non- nuclear countries. There is no doubt that this year has been a real test for the United Nations, as well as a critical test of transnational decision-making during crises. This test, so crucial for the future of the United Nations, has not yet been concluded and properly evaluated. It is not only Kosovo that has revealed that the United Nations in its present form does not make full use of its potential to be an irreplaceable vehicle for achieving the goals set out in the Charter. At the threshold of the third millennium, the Organization therefore looks for an answer to the question of how the international community can become a truly responsible community and what role the United Nations will play in this process. In our view, the United Nations must first of all respond to the changed substance of conflicts in today’s world. These are not classical conflicts between States but, in most cases, internal conflicts rather similar to civil wars. The United Nations and the international community in general face the need to clearly define the relationship between national sovereignty and the protection of human rights and ultimately to engage in a discussion on how they should support sensible civilian Governments that keep armed forces under control. In this context, we should clearly focus on the Secretary-General’s argument about individual sovereignty and the right of every individual to control his or her own destiny. Secondly, the urgency of a radical acceleration of the process of United Nations reform, particularly reform of the Security Council, is becoming increasingly evident. The Czech Republic fully supports the Secretary-General’s reform efforts, and I would like to share the optimism concerning early substantial progress in reform negotiations which Mr. Annan expressed to me during our talks in Prague last July. I have to admit that we consider the results of this year’s negotiations, especially those on Security Council reform, to be inadequate. This, of course, corresponds to the role of the United Nations during the initial stages of the Kosovo conflict. The composition of the Security Council requires change. The Czech Republic believes that the number of both permanent and non- permanent members of the Security Council needs to be increased, while representation of developing countries has to be strengthened. Thirdly, conflict-prevention mechanisms need to be created, and attention should be devoted to questions such as discrimination, poverty, access to raw materials and the arms trade. The arms trade does not include only extensive, elaborate weapons systems. It is the excessive accumulation of hand-held and other small arms which above all requires our tough response, because these personal weapons play a key role in most conflicts. I would like to express my full support for the call by the United Kingdom Foreign Secretary, Robin Cook, to halt the illegal trade in small arms. Cooperation with regional organizations such as the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the Organization of African Unity, which may be more successful in dealing with conflicts, should also play a role in preventing conflicts. I very much welcome the Secretary-General’s emphasis here on moving from a culture of reaction to a culture of prevention. Fourthly, the role of the United Nations in the area of human rights and as part of a broader concept of human security should be considerably intensified. We welcomed the Secretary-General’s personal statement in his address at this year’s session of the Commission on Human Rights, in which he said, “I have made human rights a priority in every United Nations programme”. This, it seems to me, accurately reflects the importance which the United Nations should give human rights issues in the future. The United Nations should ensure that the universal nature of human rights is accepted and projected as a leading principle for the conduct of the international community. By our joint efforts we should guarantee a dignified and complete life for every individual in the next millennium. It is unacceptable at the threshold of the new millennium to claim that human rights are relative and that their violation by sovereign States on their own territory is solely their internal affair and as such may not be a subject of interest to other members of the international community. If the United Nations were unable publicly to defend the existence of human rights, it would be unable to defend its own existence. At the same time, let us not forget the Secretary- General’s warning about the need to ensure universal legitimacy, which he issued in connection with the bombing campaign against Yugoslavia. Incidentally, the new Czech Government has adopted a foreign policy 49 concept which regards human rights as one of its main pillars and which at the same time stresses the desirability of United Nations mandates for peace-enforcing operations. Fifthly, it is in the vital interest of the United Nations for the world to step into the twenty-first century under the rule of law in international relations. The situation in the former Yugoslavia, including developments in Kosovo, clearly shows the extremely important role already played today by international judicial bodies in enhancing the prestige of international law and its gradual integration into the political decision-making processes. The implementation of international law by the United Nations international judicial bodies has considerable positive influence on how global public opinion perceives the United Nations itself. Let me now touch briefly on one more serious problem. Recent earthquakes in Turkey, Greece and Taiwan have underlined the need for the world to be prepared to provide coordinated help to an area hit by a massive natural disaster. This experience should, in our view, lead to the further strengthening and deepening of the idea already presented some time ago, namely, the idea of the “White Helmets”. The challenge is to extend “White Helmets“ into regular international rescue forces under United Nations leadership, capable of coordinated action on the spot — naturally, with the consent of the countries receiving such assistance. The ultimate goal could be the formation of rapid- response international forces, formed of national contingents and permanently available, well-equipped expert groups which could be dispatched to the stricken area in a matter of minutes or hours. In conclusion, let us remind ourselves once again that the future of the United Nations is primarily a matter of the political will of its Member States. Finding answers to the questions which have been raised at this year’s session of the General Assembly is therefore not only up to the United Nations, but up to the entire international community. The Millennium Assembly should give us a major opportunity for finding answers to these questions. I also hope that the Millennium Assembly will contribute decisively to the acceleration of work on the United Nations reforms, the need for which was so clearly highlighted by the Kosovo crisis. I am sure that the recovery of the commitment to multilateralism and to the leading United Nations role in the struggle to uphold basic Charter values, such as democracy, human rights and the rule of law, is now in sight. My traditionally cautious optimism was, I admit, slightly strengthened in this respect by listening here to some politicians representing countries with far more resources than the Czech Republic has at its disposal. Our resources are, unfortunately, fairly limited. Nevertheless, we will continue to support the United Nations and, as I have said, to participate in its missions to pour millions of dollars into humanitarian and development aid, and so on. The point I wish to make clear in this speech, even so late in the evening, is that we will always be ready to help. I take great pleasure in congratulating you most warmly, my dear brother, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. Your great country, Namibia, and its illustrious leader, President Sam Nujoma, have been very generous indeed in allowing us to benefit from the prodigious knowledge and experience you command on the workings of the United Nations, having spent the better part of your life in this institution. We are confident that under your seasoned leadership the fifty-fourth session will serve as a fitting climax to a tragic century. My delegation is ready to render you all the support you will no doubt need in carrying out your onerous responsibilities. Your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, has earned our admiration and gratitude by the exemplary manner in which he presided over the fifty-third session of the General Assembly. We thank his country, Uruguay, for allowing us to tap his wisdom and benefit from his leadership skills. Our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and his team in the Secretariat have continued to discharge their responsibilities with unstinting devotion. The problems they have to deal with, and/or seek solutions to, are enormous, and yet they remain undaunted. We owe them an immense debt of gratitude. We warmly welcome in our midst three new members of our Organization, Nauru, Kiribati and Tonga. We wish them the best and assure them of our friendship and solidarity. Despite the many horrors of the twilight of this turbulent century — the civil wars, the rampant terrorism in many places and other acts of savagery committed against millions of our fellow human beings all over the world — we have made commendable progress in the past few years in the maintenance of global peace and security and the consolidation of freedom and democracy. An increasing number of the world's nations have organized successful elections in the past few years, many with the help of the United Nations. In two weeks’ time, my own country, Botswana, will for the seventh successive time in a generation afford its citizens another opportunity to exercise their democratic right to choose their leaders. Political pluralism may not have taken root in all the corners of the globe, but it has undoubtedly enthralled the imagination of all peoples yearning for freedom. It has become the weapon of choice, a powerful one at that, against tyranny. Democracy is, of course, not necessarily a foolproof panacea against all the societal imperfections that are our natural inheritance as human beings, but we believe that only in societies where the rights of all citizens, their fundamental freedoms, their beliefs, their culture, are protected and allowed the fullest expression possible under the law, can peace prevail. Peace is a prerequisite for development, for sustainable development. At independence in 1966 Botswana was regarded, and rightly so, as an abject basket case, the poorest of the poor of the emerging African nations. Our desire to be free in those inauspicious economic and political circumstances was derided by those who did not wish us well as nothing more than a suicidal wish. Today, a mere generation later, my country prides itself on having one of the fastest growing economies in the world, thanks to the peace and stability we have enjoyed since independence and the wise utilization of the few resources with which our desert- scarred and drought- prone country is, thankfully, endowed. Democracy has been a way of life and second nature to Botswana. We attribute our peace and stability to it. We cannot, of course, forget the support we were given by the international community, particularly during the early years of our independence. This is why we welcome the end, at long last, of military rule in Nigeria, a country whose importance to our continent and to the world at large cannot be gainsaid. A vibrant democracy in Nigeria will have a powerful effect not only on the west African region, but also on the continent as a whole. 5 We pledge our support to our Nigerian brothers and sisters in their struggle to nurture their democracy and to reconstruct their economy as well as to rehabilitate their institutions. We reiterate our aversion to coups and military rule, and laud the Organization of African Unity (OAU) Algiers decision to the effect that from now on those who overthrow Governments by means other than democratic elections will face isolation by our African community. We welcome the signing in Togo recently of a peace agreement between the democratically elected Government of Sierra Leone and the rebels. We understand fully the circumstances which compelled President Kabbah to sign this peace agreement. We hope the agreement will bring peace to Sierra Leone. We urge the international community to contribute generously to the rehabilitation and reconstruction of that devastated country. The Great Lakes region in Central Africa remains unstable, despite the signing recently of an Agreement to end the conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The signing of the Agreement by its Government and its Southern African Development Community (SADC) allies and the rebels is the first step in a difficult journey to peace in Central Africa. The Agreement will, however, amount to nothing without the full support of the international community, in particular that of the United Nations. We therefore urge the Security Council, in collaboration with the Organization of African Unity (OAU), to become actively involved in the full implementation of the Lusaka Agreement. Time is of the essence. The case of Angola is a very sad one. The departure of the United Nations from that war-ravaged country has left a void, which has abetted one of the deadliest conflicts that has ever afflicted Africa. In the absence of the United Nations Angola Verification Mission, it is not possible to assess accurately the magnitude of the slaughter, the starvation and the general mayhem caused by disease and landmines in Angola. Nevertheless, we call upon the international community to intensify its efforts to end the tragedy, and we firmly believe that the tragedy can be ended only by the full implementation of the Lusaka Protocol. We further call upon those among us who continue to give Savimbi’s rebellion sustenance to cease doing so. We must all cooperate in ensuring that sanctions imposed against UNITA are effective. We welcome, in this regard, the Security Council’s recent establishment of panels to investigate violations of the sanctions imposed against UNITA and to find effective ways of tightening them. It is our fervent hope that the panels will not only be able to reveal the identities of UNITA’s merchants of death, but will also advise on how such violators of United Nations sanctions could be deterred from defying the will of the international community. The bloody war that has been raging between the East African neighbours of Eritrea and Ethiopia may be experiencing a lull as we meet here, but the fact, in our view, continues to be that this terrible war does not make sense. It is a war of brothers who, more than anyone else, should have found it easy to sit down to discuss whatever differences might have arisen between them. We urge our two fellow African countries to embrace each other under the OAU-brokered peace agreement and to make peace. The question of Western Sahara has been on our agenda for too long. We urge the parties to redouble their efforts to conclude the identification process so that a referendum can be held to decide the future of Western Sahara once and for all, as called for by the OAU summit in Algiers. The decision by Indonesia last year to allow the people of East Timor to decide their future as they saw fit was hailed by my country — and, I am sure, by many others across the globe — as a momentous and wise one. We lavished praise on Indonesia for this decision, fully conscious of the fact that it could not have been an easy one to make. The decision was quickly followed by the equally momentous Agreement signed in May this year between the Governments of Indonesia and Portugal, on one hand, and the United Nations, on the other, by which the people of East Timor were to decide their future through a referendum. We were therefore disappointed, to put it as mildly as I can, by the tragic events that followed the holding of the referendum. The unleashing of militias on an innocent population — which had, with so much dignity and calm, voted in a referendum, as invited to do by Indonesia and the United Nations — deeply disappointed Indonesia’s friends, including my own country. The destruction of Dili, the capital of East Timor, and its environs by the militias ennobled no one, including Indonesia, and deserves our censure. 6 Now that the East Timorese have unequivocally stated their preference, which is independence, they should be afforded all the assistance they need to fulfil their national aspirations without hindrance. Relations between the soon- to-be independent State of East Timor and the Republic of Indonesia should be cordial, and it is our hope that this will be the case. The resuscitation of the Wye River Memorandum and its implementation recently have given a needed fillip to the peace process between the Israelis and the Palestinians. This gives us hope for the final phase of the negotiations that have just begun. We urge the Israeli authorities and the Palestinians to persevere in the quest for peace in the Middle East. In the past few years we have witnessed a proliferation of summits and major conferences aimed at building a consensus on issues as diverse as women and development, youth, the environment, human rights, population and social development, human settlements, education and health. We have also convened conferences to address the dangers of weapons of mass destruction and to intensify the campaign against landmines. If summitry and conferences alone were the solution to the world’s ills, our planet would by now have become a wonderful place to live. But this is not at all the case. The cold war may have ended, but the old danger or threat posed to the security of humankind by weapons of mass destruction remains. This is, as always, exacerbated by the build-up of conventional weapons beyond the legitimate requirements of self-defence. Once again we urge those concerned to show political will and commitment by taking progressive measures to reduce nuclear weapons globally, with the ultimate goal of eliminating them. The adoption by the OAU of the Pelindaba Treaty and the establishment of the African Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone has demonstrated Africa’s commitment to an early conclusion of a legally binding instrument to avert the dangers posed by nuclear weapons. We will continue to work assiduously with our partners in the developing world to pursue efforts aimed at ridding the southern hemisphere of all weapons of mass destruction, particularly nuclear weapons. Landmines have continued to maim and kill innocent people. We must redouble our efforts to ban their production, stockpiling and use. We must all become party to the 1997 Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their Destruction. The challenges of development have become more formidable in today’s globalizing world. Increased integration of markets and the rapid transfer of technology and of other innovations, as well as a wide array of economic, social and political relationships, band our nations together and dictate a common destiny for our peoples. To survive the global competition, we in the developing world must timeously and adequately respond to the opportunities and challenges facing us. In order to do so we need to vigorously pursue strategies that will increase trade prospects. We need also to raise the productivity of our labour force and the quality of our human resources. It is crucial that in our pursuit of sustainable economic development, the basic tenets of democracy and good governance be upheld at all times and never be sacrificed. At the Algiers summit of the OAU, our leaders had substantive discussions on how to harness the forces of globalization for the benefit of the African region and for the prosperity of our peoples. They solemnly committed themselves to striving to ensure that globalization does not transform Africa into a marginalized bystander. We recognize, however, that to move forward, the entire international community has to be fully engaged. This would by no means be merely a charitable act, but rather an investment in global peace and security. The United Nations, as a universal forum, is uniquely placed to promote international cooperation by addressing the challenges of development in the context of interdependence. However, this can be achieved only if the United Nations is provided adequate financial resources. We note with deep concern that the last five years have seen a steady decline in the resources of the United Nations Development Programme, the leading operational arm of the United Nations. Far too many of our people live in abject poverty. Far too many die of preventable diseases such as tuberculosis and malaria. Unemployment remains pervasive, especially among the young. Africa’s economic recovery and growth potential continue to be frustrated by the mounting foreign debt. Despite the numerous relief efforts, a durable solution to the problem has remained unattainable. My delegation acknowledges the efforts being made through the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt (HIPC) Initiative in 1996. 7 But while the HIPC Initiative can be a catalyst in the search for the solution, it cannot be the solution itself. To reach the heart of the debt problem, it is imperative that the debtors and the creditors acknowledge the seriousness of the problem and work together to strike a compromise that could yield long-term results. We appreciate the efforts being made by the Bretton Woods institutions and the donor Governments to address the debt problem, particularly the seminar recently held in the Kenyan capital of Nairobi, chaired by the President of Botswana, Mr. Festus Mogae, whose results we hope will be followed up. We still believe, however, that the permanent solution to Africa’s debt problem should go beyond the mere rescheduling of the debt-payment period to outright cancellation and debt forgiveness. The alarming rate of the spread of the HIV/AIDS pandemic is undoubtedly the most worrisome and urgent problem facing sub-Saharan Africa, Botswana being one of the hardest-hit countries. My Government is responding with an aggressive national information and education campaign to combat this destructive disease. The achievements made so far in the health sector and the economy are in jeopardy. The advancement of women and the elimination of all forms of discrimination and violence against them in many societies are yet to be achieved. Women and young girls are still subjected to all manner of brutalities. The plight of millions of children who are conscripted into armies in various parts of the world is an outrage. The images of children being conscripted and trained to participate in senseless wars caused by the folly of adults dehumanizes us all. Everything must be done to discourage this evil practice and to punish those who insist on perpetrating it. The Government of Botswana fully supports the work of the Special Representative of General Assembly for Children and Armed Conflict and remains fully committed to upholding all the international legal instruments on the rights of children. My delegation attaches great importance to these issues and urges the community of nations here gathered to join their efforts in the search for solutions to these socio-economic problems. In turning now to the reform of the United Nations, let me briefly say the following: A wise man adapts to circumstances, as water shapes itself to the vessel that contains it. So says a Chinese proverb. That the United Nations, particularly its Security Council, needs to adapt itself to the era in which it exists today, I think is axiomatic. The fact that the Security Council’s undemocratic composition is an insult to the overwhelming majority of the Members of this Organization is also, I think, self-evident and recognized as such even by those who would, if allowed, keep this important organ as it is. Africa, demands to be properly represented in the Security Council in both categories of representation. We will never tire of insisting on our demand for three additional non-permanent seats and at least two permanent seats. Let me conclude by once again wishing you well, Sir, in your tenure of office as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. We can assure you that our commitment to the United Nations remains as strong as ever. This Organization, I am sure we all agree, is irreplaceable.   I have stood upon this platform on many occasions, and I well remember every speech I have given here since 1985. This is perhaps because, first, I cannot conceive of any loftier rostrum in the world and, secondly, because my personal political fate has always brought me here at times of great change. My most recent appearance before the General Assembly was in 1992, when I was already Head of State of my country, Georgia. That, too, was a moment filled with drama — one in which a new, independent State was going through a painful birth process. Today, I am with the Assembly at the end of a stormy century, one which I would call the century of freedom. That is not because freedom has become a universal norm of life — regrettably, that is not yet the case — but, rather, because the concept of freedom has assumed pre-eminence on the scale of political values and also because it was, indeed, in our century that the worst enemies of freedom and democracy were defeated. Perhaps the most unanticipated and important of these events was the demise of the Soviet empire, which 19 brought about the end of the cold war, the bipolar world and the post-war world order. The collapse of empires follows a more or less similar pattern. Initially, centrifugal forces triumph, but later phantom pains for the lost territories begin to be felt in the metropolis and attempts are made to recentralize the former imperial space. Yet historical experience demonstrates that designs to restore an empire inevitably remain the unfulfilled dream of imperial reactionaries. History cannot be turned back. However, in the arsenal of today’s reactionaries there remains still one chance to partially, if not completely, return to past ways — by maintaining spheres of influence over the territories of the former empire. Here I do not mean spheres of interest, including strategic interests. Harmonizing interests in a civilized way is a normal international practice. The concept of spheres of influence, however, particularly within the context of globalization, represents an anachronism. But let me return to the demise of the cold war and the bipolar world. As someone who happened to participate in this process, I think an explanation is in order since debate on how and why it all happened continues to this day. I do not deny that the reasons for the end of the cold war were many and complex. Yet I want to especially stress the role of the new thinking, which was conceived even before perestroika. I am certain that no drawn-out economic hardships, not even any “Star Wars project”, would have compelled the socialist camp to democratize within, or to take radical steps in the international arena to overcome the confrontation, if instead of Mikhail Gorbachev and his team, leaders who possessed the old mentality had remained at the helm of the Soviet ship of state. Since I have mentioned Mikhail Gorbachev, I must send to him, a man who is an outstanding figure of our time, condolences for the death of his spouse, Raisa Gorbachev. The new thinking of that period contained many elements, but we can generally describe it as a concept designed to make all spheres of political and public life more human. In international relations, this implied, first and foremost, replacing the class-based ideological approach with ethically motivated decisions, in line with universal values. Only due to this new approach were the countries of the Soviet space and Eastern Europe able to make their democratic choices with relatively little pain. Without the new thinking it would have been difficult to conceive of the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan or that truly epochal event, the fall of the Berlin Wall, the subsequent reunification of Germany and the liberation of Eastern Europe. The old found it difficult to come to terms with the new. The two could not exist harmoniously together. Moreover, not everyone accepted the idea of replacing the class-based approach with the primacy of universal values. I remember that when I first expressed this concept to the Soviet diplomatic corps, it spawned aggressive clashes of opinion and upheaval across the entire Soviet space. But has not this always been the case? Historically, changes of this scale were always preceded by paradigm shifts in human thinking — that is, new thinking had to occur first. This was the case in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, when a new world based on scientific thinking was emerging, and also in the epoch of the Enlightenment, during which the ideas of equality and humanism gave birth to the theory and practice of a democratic state. In the historical literature and memoirs dedicated to the end of the cold war, one often finds references to winners and losers. It is erroneous to frame this most complex event of global historical significance in such simplistic terms. For example, how can Russia be considered to have been “defeated” when it set forth the example to other peoples by creating its own independent State? One might ask the same about other States which belonged to the so-called socialist camp and today are independent democracies. Credit for the victory over the cold war equally belongs to the representatives of the former opposing camps who had in common the new thinking and a commitment to the noble idea of saving mankind from a nuclear nightmare. If we talk of any loser at all, it was the old, stagnant thinking which was defeated, and a new common sense prevailed. Shifts in thinking should occur at every stage of human development. The end of the cold war is a highly significant intellectual breakthrough of the twentieth century. 20 The process of renovation of ideas is perennial. Stagnation is tantamount to backward motion. At the threshold of the new millennium, it is necessary that we once again develop a new thinking — new principles in the relationship between States and a new approach to common problems and threats. Today, nearly a decade after the Iron Curtain was lifted and the cold war came to an end, one often hears scepticism expressed about this great liberal democratic revolution of the twentieth century. “What has changed, after all?” some ask. Indeed, it is high time that we thoroughly assessed what has happened and surveyed the myriad new opportunities that have presented themselves as a result of this tectonic shift, as well as the far-from-simple problems that up until now one would hardly ever think about. My ancient country, Georgia, is one of those newly independent States which provide a good platform for observing both the virtues and shortcomings of the processes under way in this new, post-bipolar world. Although the history of Georgian statehood stretches back more than three millennia, the vicissitudes of history caused us to have to begin building our nation State from scratch once again in the last decade of this century. The beginning proved especially difficult. The utter incompetence and inexperience of its first post-communist leadership threw Georgia into conflict and civil war. The result was complete economic collapse and the loss of even those token signs of statehood that we had inherited from the Soviet system. Georgia in fact found itself isolated from the rest of the world. All this was accompanied by an unprecedented criminal rampage the eradication of which took several years. Georgia began to work its way out of this isolation in the spring of 1992 when it became a member of the United Nations, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the Black Sea Economic Cooperation and began to actively forge diplomatic relations with its neighbours and more distant nations. In fact, it was during this difficult period that our country — its people and leadership — made its choice. Georgia would set forth on the way towards building a free and democratic society based on a socially oriented market economy. Despite the serious barriers that continued to emerge along the way, Georgia never once departed from the course it set for itself. The principles and practice of the construction of our democratic country did not go unnoticed by the international community. Under new conditions, when the bipolar confrontation was no more, international organizations were given the opportunity for their actions to span the entire globe, to help those States in need and to assist in their development. The United Nations, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Union and particularly the United States, Germany and Holland, as well as others, extended their help to us. The year 1995 was indeed the turning point in Georgia’s new era. With it came the adoption of a new democratic Constitution, as well as the holding of the first parliamentary and presidential elections. In the same year, we achieved financial stability and introduced a new national currency. At the end of that year, for the first time in Georgia’s democratic development, growth in gross domestic product was recorded. Very importantly also, law and order prevailed in the country, and the rampage of crime was finally curbed. It was in the same year, however, 1995, that the first blast thundered. It was a terrorist act targeting Georgia’s head of State. This barbaric act signalled to the world that not everyone found Georgia’s progress towards democracy to their liking, especially if Georgia were to succeed along the path of her choice. Recent years have demonstrated that the positive trends in Georgia have become irreversible. From 1996 to 1997, the annual economic growth was around 11 per cent, the exchange rate was stable and inflation continued to decline. No less significant was the progress made in building democratic institutions and putting in place and enforcing the legal framework for a civil society. In this respect, it is no exaggeration to say that Georgia has travelled in several short years a distance that often requires decades. I am happy to say that as Georgia continues to improve its democratic institutions and develop its economy we are becoming a partner to others rather than merely a recipient of international aid. This is largely made possible through the new function that my country has been establishing for itself over the past few years. For many decades the fuel-rich countries of the Caspian region and Central Asia were cut off from the rest of the world by impermeable walls. Now they have begun to seek alternative routes to deliver their wealth to 21 the world market. The south Caucasus, especially Georgia, with its outlets to the Black Sea, has a pivotal location on the route along which cargoes are already being shipped between east and west and between north and south. Since April this year, oil has been flowing westward across the territory of Georgia via the new Baku-Supsa pipeline. In ancient times, Georgia was part of the great Silk Road. This function is reviving along with that vast highway that in ancient times traversed the continents, bridging peoples and promoting the diffusion of cultures and the exchange of ideas. I am referring to the great Eurasian space and relevant transport routes. International organizations and individual countries have shown great interest in the idea of a rebirth of the great Silk Road. The European Union initiated the TRACECA and INOGATE projects, under which the construction of the transport infrastructure is funded and multiple alternative networks of oil and gas pipelines are being elaborated. The United States Senate recently adopted the Silk Road strategy support bill, introduced by Senator Brownbeck, which envisages providing assistance to the south Caucasus and Central Asian States to strengthen independence and democratic development, as well as to build a transport infrastructure that will include multiple oil and gas pipelines. In addition, the Japanese Government has developed a strategy for the new Silk Road. China and other States are also participating in the realization of this project. The countries of south Caucasus — Azerbaijan, Armenia and Georgia — signed partnership and cooperation agreements with the European Union that entered into force in June of this year. As for Georgia’s progress in building a democratic society based on the rule of law and respect for human rights, its accomplishments have been recognized by the Council of Europe, of which Georgia became a full- fledged member earlier this year. As I said earlier, the modest successes we have enjoyed on the way towards independent development — that is, our participation in projects of global significance and our aspiration to integrate with international, regional and Euro-Atlantic institutions — have irritated and continue to irritate the reactionary forces that are scattered across the entire territory of the former Soviet Union, where they pose a serious threat to democratic regimes in the new States, including Russia. The terrorist blast of 1995 was not an isolated incident. It was followed by other provocations and terrorist acts, which included another attempt on the President’s life. Will these attempts to force Georgia’s deviation from its chosen path continue? We cannot rule this out, since geopolitical shifts of this scale never proceed smoothly. The enemies of our country use the entire arsenal at their disposal, including buying politicians and even votes, in attempting to bring to power a regime that is more to their liking. In the current conditions of globalization and increased interdependence, no country is immune to the contagion of economic crisis. Last year independent Georgia experienced first hand the repercussions of the negative global economic situation, especially when the financial crisis erupted in neighbouring Russia, which continues to play a major part in Georgia’s foreign trade operations. Today we can claim with reasonable confidence that Georgia’s young market economy and banking system passed this test worthily, and international organizations and friendly countries made major contributions to our ability to survive. Unresolved conflicts and our violated territorial integrity remain Georgia’s most painful problem — in other words, the very problem which is among the series of new threats that the international community has shown itself unprepared to deal with. As a result of the campaign of genocide and ethnic cleansing conducted by Abkhaz separatists, with external military support, many civilians of Georgian and other ethnic extractions have been killed, and nearly 300,000 people have been displaced. Despite the aid that our Government, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and other organizations provide, these innocent victims continue to live in conditions of extreme deprivation. These severely traumatized people, who have been subjected to inhuman brutalities, demand protection of their most inalienable right: the right to live in their own homes. It is unfortunate that, unlike the confrontation in the Balkans, the Abkhaz conflict has been given no exposure on world television screens, and therefore the international community has little awareness of it. Having seen with my own eyes the brutalities committed there, I have no doubt whatsoever that people infected by the germ of hatred lose their humanity and behave in the same barbaric manner, be it in Kosovo, Rwanda or Abkhazia. It is difficult to believe what has happened. With the help of foreign regular army units and mercenaries, the Abkhaz, who originally constituted only 17 per cent of the population, expelled the majority just because they were not Abkhaz, but Georgians, Armenians, Jews, Russians, Greeks or other ethnicities. This was 22 accomplished alongside ethnically motivated summary executions and mass killings. The involvement of international entities — the United Nations, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), the Russian Federation and the Group of Friends of the Secretary-General — has so far failed to produce tangible results. In my opinion, one of the reasons for the failure of all attempts to resolve this conflict is that what has really happened in Abkhazia has not yet been objectively assessed at the level of the highest international body — the Security Council, which the Charter mandates to act as the guarantor of security in the world. Is it not all too obvious that it is impossible to fight evil if one does not call it by its proper name — that is, if one does not assign an appropriate legal assessment to what has happened? The 21 United Nations resolutions on the conflict in Abkhazia, Georgia, do not provide such an unequivocal assessment, despite the fact that the final documents of the OSCE’s Budapest and Lisbon summits qualify the action of the leaders of the Abkhaz separatists as ethnic cleansing. Indeed, the sole objective of the separatist leadership, encouraged by reactionary external forces, was to change the demography of this autonomous republic. It is hard to imagine that a regime that has in fact attained its goal can be convinced through mere request and persuasion to allow the displaced to return. I do not want to be misunderstood. We do not thirst for the blood of our Abkhaz brothers, nor do we seek vengeance. No, I am sure that in time Georgians and Abkhaz will dwell together in their historic homeland: Georgia. But in order to speed up the process of the Georgian-Abkhaz reconciliation, the tragedy must be given its fair legal assessment. It is no surprise that in a century in which the concept of freedom has acquired such scope, human rights command special attention. Before Georgia was accepted into the Council of Europe, rapporteurs scrutinized our human rights profile, examining how free the media were, the conditions of prisoners — including the worst offenders — and many other aspects of human rights. We are grateful to the Council of Europe and other international bodies and non-governmental organizations for their undiminished attention to this critical aspect of life in our country, and for their unbiased assessments and recommendations. Especially against the backdrop of such keen attention to matters of human rights, I find it hard to understand the indifference of the international community to the fate of the 300,000 people currently displaced from Abkhazia and to the flagrant violation of their basic right to live in their own homes. The matter is not whether or not help is being extended to these people. Of course, they would have been in far more difficult straits had the United Nations and individual countries not provided relief. But in terms of human rights the only response proportionate to their situation would be to assist them in restoring their inalienable rights — that is, allowing them to return to their homes and holding those who have violated their rights responsible, if only by giving an appropriate assessment of the acts of the perpetrators of ethnic cleansing. Unfortunately, little has been done to this end. Although expressing personal feelings is perhaps not appropriate from this podium, I find it difficult to repress my emotions when talking of completely innocent people expelled from their homes by brutal force fuelled by simple hatred. My heart is heavy. I was involved in the complex processes that brought an end to the Cold War. I believed, as did my co-thinkers, that the future world order, liberated from the confrontations between camps, would not permit injustice; that under the new conditions, the United Nations and the Security Council, at the pinnacle of our world’s hierarchy, would be able to prevent individual assaults against civilized norms of existence. The Assembly can imagine how disillusioned I was when ethnic purging of the Georgian population occurred, and, by the way, remaining unpunished within my own country. I addressed the Security Council twice with a detailed account and explanation of what happened, but no substantial progress has yet been made, even in the formulation of its resolutions. Having experienced this disappointment, I believe it should have come as no surprise that I firmly supported the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) operation in Kosovo, aimed at putting an end to ethnic cleansing, since I viewed that operation as the long-awaited manifestation of a firm stand against evil. At the same time, however, the action in Kosovo must not be interpreted by anyone as even indirect support of aggressive separatism. By no means. I have always believed that aggressive separatism and attempts to manipulate evolving democratic orders by use of force is one of the worst and most dangerous maladies of modern times. Since the end of the cold war, during which the threat of nuclear war hung over our heads like the sword of Damocles, while local conflicts, despite their true 23 causes, inevitably acquired an ideological tint, political analysts have made extensive efforts to determine the nature of the virus causing today’s aggression and the causes of possible future clashes. The theories are extremely interesting, and the debates as to how well they correspond to reality will doubtless continue for years to come. On the other hand, from even a brief glance at today’s conflicts it is clear that virtually all of them are linked to an erroneous interpretation by ethnic minorities of the principle of self-determination, and to a likewise erroneous understanding by titular nations and their central authorities of minorities’ rights with respect to that principle. In other words, either aggressive separatism or no less aggressive violation of the rights of ethnic minorities, and in some cases both, underlie these conflicts. During such confrontations, a certain segment of the population becomes undesirable to a group of political adventurists. This “foreign body” is then removed through the policy of “ethnic cleansing” and genocide. Today there are hundreds of places in the world where some groups of individuals may come to entertain an ambition towards this manner of self- determination and apply the well tried — and, regrettably, in many cases successful — method, which I would call the method of demographic engineering. It is not difficult to foresee how chaotic our world can become and what torment millions of innocent people will suffer just because they are found to be ethnically inappropriate, so to speak. Today, when the epoch of colonial empires has been relegated to the past, the issue of the integrity of the State and the self-determination of peoples demands new, clearer formulations to ensure that each side in a potential conflict fully realizes the limits of international legitimacy of its claims. In democratic States, with Governments equally representing the interests of all its citizens, self- determination must be regarded as the right to express oneself in a very broad sense, but only within the boundaries of a State which, on its part, respects these rights. There should be no talk of separation by the use of force and violation of territorial integrity. Let me also add that the rationale provided by opposing sides to justify forcible redrawing of borders always centres around an alleged necessity to restore historical justice. History, which is hardly an exact science, is interpreted according to the respective interests of the sides involved. I believe that new thinking should have a say with regard to this matter as well. In international relations, perhaps, one must not overemphasize, or, to be more precise, blow out of proportion the role of historical precedence. That was precisely the intent of the Helsinki Accords, regarding norms for the inviolability of existing borders. At the same time, there is nothing more fundamental to the formation of a national consciousness than the citizens’ knowledge of their own history. And this acquires special significance in the present era of vigorous globalization. The efforts of individual peoples, particularly small ones, will not be enough to sustain world diversity. The contribution of each nation, large or small, to the development of world civilization and culture is unique and special. So is that of my small country. The culture of every nationality is a singular phenomenon. Although the economy, the environment, the elimination of poverty, the management of demographic processes and sustainable development are the main challenges for us all, the time is also ripe to protect and preserve the national cultural heritage, which remains an ever present fountain to enrich and ennoble the human spirit. The Georgians say “Let us save culture, and culture will save us”. Universal homogenization, which endangers the identity of small nations, should be entered in the register of modern threats. I suggest that we develop a collective mechanism for their cultural protection. Developments in recent years have clearly shown that the existing system of collective responsibility for global security is still far from perfect. Certainly, since bipolarity has been overcome we have significantly improved the prospects for the successful activities of international organizations, especially the United Nations, whose decisions were often not enforced because of the rivalry between the two ideological blocs. Yet they are not always able to effectively address new perils. Order cannot be ensured unless negative sanctions are applied, and this is exactly what the United Nations is avoiding in every way. Although the United Nations Charter does provide for fairly strong mechanisms for ensuring security, such awesome word combinations as Chapter VII and the Military Staff Committee exist most often merely on paper. Surely the founders of the United Nations deserve praise for their wisdom and vision, but we should not forget that the mechanism they created for our collective responsibility for the world’s fate was framed for a different time. 24 It must be admitted that, despite attempts to establish order in the world, the planet continues to live in a state of anarchy. On the other hand, the need for a tougher and more just order becomes increasingly more obvious. Most of today’s threats go way beyond the scope of the competence of the nation-State. They are global in nature. No individual country can cope with them alone. Much as is the case within individual nations, the international community primarily needs the unanimity of its subjects in terms of their commitment to a set of fundamental principles. This seems to be expressed in many charters and conventions. In reality, however, it is not the case. The attitude towards terrorism can be cited as an example. Despite public statements condemning terrorism, it appears that many still allow it as an acceptable means for achieving political and other ends. How else can one explain that terrorists whose identities are known to all are not hiding in the woods, but, rather, are able to find shelter in different States? Of course, it is true that the world does respond to some extent to threats as they occur. Individual States and alliances of States do make serious efforts to fight global ailments. Sometimes, as has just happened in Kosovo, they undertake such tasks as a coercion to peace. It is my position that no one has a moral right to denounce NATO for that operation, particularly those who, through their inaction, play into the hands of those who disturb the peace. Yet this is not precisely what one would call a demonstration of collective responsibility. In such a case several democratic and developed — and therefore powerful — States undertake the stewardship of the rest of the world. Of course, we can only thank them for this. But it would be better for all if those who have undertaken responsibility for the fate of the world carried out their mission within the framework of a mechanism established by the international organizations. We have already proposed to expand the membership of the Security Council and address the issue of veto rights in order to adapt it to present-day requirements. In my view, the almost automatic use of the veto is unacceptable. In the bipolar world this practice largely cancelled out the possibility of conducting peace enforcement operations, because in those years any force represented, to some extent, one pole or the other. With the end of the cold war, the possibility of using collective decisions to bring about peace reappeared. The decision taken against the aggression in Kuwait gave many the hope that from then on the Security Council would be bound by shared principles and that an ethical approach would prevail. There were other encouraging episodes as well. But in the case of Kosovo, a new cold breeze seemed to have begun to blow from the Security Council. Despite its humane motivations, the operation carried out by NATO — like any ethical action today — also contained a pragmatic component. Had NATO not intervened in Kosovo, the influx of refugees would inevitably have upset the fragile balance in that extremely important part of Europe. Perhaps a number of States would have been drawn into the conflict. We might even have witnessed a big Balkan war. In today’s world an ethical approach in international politics is justified from a pragmatic standpoint as well. It is from a position of morality that we should act if we want to do good for mankind. Morality should be the basis of our policy, and it should become the pillar of the new thinking of the twenty-first century. We are encouraged by the Secretary-General’s statement that measures to reform the Security Council will be taking place shortly and that the reform will enable us to act in accordance with the norms of international law when addressing regional conflicts in the future. Regardless of the serious threats existing today, it would not be an overstatement to say that mankind has never in the course of history had a more singular opportunity to create a just world order and a more harmonious community of nations. True, occasionally confrontational rhetoric can still be heard, but I am convinced that today’s controversies between East and West are ghosts of the past, artificially grafted onto the present. One may argue that this is done mostly to camouflage the acute internal problems of individual States. The generation that ended the cold war, the most dangerous conflict in the history of mankind, without spilling blood, can find a common language between continents, States and individual people and, through civilized dialogue, shorten the route leading to the resolution of global problems today and in the future. Now that we have overcome the dividing lines of the ideological confrontation, we must learn how to erase other lines that divide the peoples of our world into rich and poor, educated and uneducated. In this process too, a new approach and new thinking are critical. Those who spoke before me have already mentioned that globalization should not mean only access to markets, free trade across borders, free movement of capital and financial interdependence. All this should be paralleled by the globalization of responsibility for the fate of the 25 planet and the realization that today’s world is too small to allow for the painless coexistence of affluence and poverty. We must find ways to alleviate the burden of debt on the poorest developing States. Otherwise, the perpetual pressure of a shortage in financial resources will render them unable to emerge from poverty and, certainly, unequipped to build a free society. Assisting them in building free societies is a pragmatic objective, not merely an ethical cause. In today’s interdependent world the poverty of States will produce echoes of terrorism, drugs and crime in others. In order to be secure, the future world must consist of at least moderately well-off, free nations that will pursue transparent and predictable domestic and foreign policies. I recall appeals made by the leaders of many developed States at different international forums, including President Clinton’s reassuring remarks at the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank, where he underlined the critical importance of relieving the debt burden on poor nations. There are also appeals to the effect that we should enter the twenty-first century with developing and economically weak nations freed of the heavy burden of debt. We could, in fact, think of a 10-year programme designed to resolve the problem of debts right at the outset of the twenty-first century. This would be a most fair decision which, at the threshold of a new century and a new millennium, would become a kind of beacon guiding many a nation to a brighter future. I have said many times that I am generally optimistic about the future of mankind. This optimism is grounded in the belief that we are slowly acquiring experience; we can learn and we can be transformed. The Marshall Plan and post-war Europe, which have vanquished the chimera of antagonisms and showed new ways of integration, are good examples of this. In 1985, when many from this platform spoke of “star wars” and the end of humanity, I declared that the new thinking offered to the world not “star wars”, but a “star peace”. I thank God that this declaration did not remain simply a dream, and that mankind is gradually emerging from the nightmare of nuclear war, both on the ground and in the sky. This gives me reason to hope that humankind, equipped with the capacity for constant intellectual renewal, will live its next century with a single mind which will make it an epoch of peace and freedom, justice and universal harmony.  My delegation is delighted to congratulate the President on his election. My delegation's hearty congratulations are made even warmer as he has the privilege and the honour to take the fifty-fourth session, as President of the General Assembly, from the twentieth into the twenty-first century. A similar unique place in history will not be observed for another hundred years. We are confident, in view of his past heroic leadership of the South West Africa People's Organization (SWAPO), and now as the Foreign Minister of Namibia, he will conduct our deliberations with vision and dynamism. My delegation also wishes to express our grateful appreciation to Mr. Didier Opertti of Uruguay for his skilful and productive conduct of the proceedings of the General Assembly at its fifty-third session. My delegation welcomes to the family of nations the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga and offers hearty congratulations. As the curtain makes its slow descent upon the twentieth century, bringing it to its inevitable close, there is a prevailing mood of reflection and anticipation. Rightly so, as a connection between past, present and future is being made, for we cannot appreciate the present without knowledge of the past if we hope to ensure the future. And indeed, historically speaking, the past is never past, for what is past is prologue. In retrospect, for some developing countries the period of the 1980s was considered a lost decade because of the heavy burden of debt servicing, falling commodity prices, negative economic growth, unemployment and structural adjustment. In the 1990s, the catchwords seemed to be “sustainable development”, “environmentally friendly”, “good governance”, “globalization”, and “poverty alleviation”. These phrases seem to be the legacy of the cluster of United Nations summits of the 1990s: the Conference on Environment and Development in 1992, on Human Rights in 1993, on Small Island Developing States in 1994, on Population and Development in 1994, on Social Development in 1995, on Women in 1995, on Human Settlements in 1996 and on Food Security in 1996. In all these high-level meetings, the centrality of the human person in sustainable social, economic, and cultural development was emphasized. Grenada believes that the concept of sustainable development is shared responsibility on the part of developed and developing countries. Its global character must be recognized so that there can be more sharing of knowledge, ideas, information and resources. Consequently, the region from which I come, the Caribbean, strongly urges our more developed partners urgently to make available new and additional sources of funding and technological transfer to enable us to comply with the obligations the international Conventions demand of us. In short, the concepts of the global village and globalization should be premised on giving, caring and sharing. Sustainable development is not possible without respect for the whole range of human rights — economic, social, cultural, civil and political. Indeed, human rights are meaningless in an environment of poverty and deprivation. The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mrs. Mary Robinson, has said, aptly, that perhaps the largest scale of human rights violations today is the fact that one fifth of humanity lives in absolute poverty. World Bank estimates reveal that over 35 per cent of people in the Caribbean basin live below the poverty line. This situation threatens the very existence of civil societies there. Moreover, the plight of certain small Caribbean States is further compounded by the World Trade Organization's inhumane rulings over the European Union banana regime. We are still baffled over the attitude of our traditional ally and certain friendly Latin American countries over the modified version of the banana regime. We are hopeful, though, that a satisfactory compromise will be arrived at soon. If so, the economies of the small, banana-producing countries would be saved from the shocks of a banana industry become non-existent. I stress that there is an urgent need to unite our efforts in a common framework to alleviate the problems associated with critical poverty in order to restore some form of human dignity in our countries. To the observer with no inside knowledge of the working of the United Nations and its specialized agencies, the series of meetings to review what has already been reviewed, and perhaps in some cases already implemented, seem as complex as quantum physics and exercises in repetitive and confusing rhetoric. Nevertheless, since the conceptual and structural framework of sustainable development is shared responsibility, my delegation is hopeful that the recently- 24 ended special session to review the implementation of the 1994 Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States has given some impetus to the creation of this global partnership we all desire. We are equally hopeful that the project proposals submitted by Grenada will be favourably considered and appropriate funding made available to execute them. The Caribbean Sea is a unique body of water bordering a large number of States, with overlapping exclusive economic zones, vulnerable to the elements of nature and also to man-made disasters. The Caribbean Sea is indisputably the lifeblood of the countries of the Caribbean Community — one half of whose population lives on the coastline, where 20 per cent of the regional gross domestic product is produced — and provides employment for more than 25 per cent of the labour force in tourism and the fishing industry. Sustainable management and development of the Caribbean Sea and its resources would benefit not only the Caribbean people but also the international community as a whole. Moreover, recognition of the Caribbean Sea as a special area within the context of sustainable development would provide the jurisdictional authority necessary to control the passage of ships carrying toxic and hazardous wastes and chemical and radioactive materials in Caribbean waters. My delegation urges this special recognition of the Caribbean Sea for all of the reasons I have stated. We are mindful that we do not own the Earth; we are simply holding it in trust for succeeding generations. We are admonished not to treat the land with contempt and remember that from it we came and to it we shall return. Grenada is absolutely clear about its commitment to the principles of the United Nations and therefore reveres the ideals which informed those principles. Grenada thus places a premium on fairness and justice in the conduct of international affairs. It is in this context that the Government of Grenada wishes to request that a fresh look be taken at United Nations General Assembly resolution 2758 (XXVI) of 1971, as a matter of simple justice and fairness to the people of the Republic of China. This humanitarian-minded and democratically inclined country has used its hard-earned resources to help developing countries to help themselves, by providing training, expertise and capital for developmental projects and other forms of technical assistance in several critical areas. The noble efforts of the Republic of China reminds one of the great Chinese philosopher, Confucius, and his thoughts on giving a man a fish and teaching a man to fish, Grenada applauds the sacrifices of the Republic of China in this regard. Indeed, the Republic of China has wrought an economic miracle, to the point where it is the fourteenth most important trading country and its foreign reserves rank among the top in the world. The international community cannot simply ignore the aspirations of such a dynamic and generous people, and should thus ensure that the fundamental right of the 22 million people of the Republic of China on Taiwan to participate in the activities of the United Nations be fully respected. Equally, in the name of humanity and justice, Grenada calls for the lifting of the economic embargo against the Republic of Cuba. World opinion is definitely swayed towards this, and consequently overwhelming support is given year after year to the relevant resolutions at the United Nations on this issue. Sadly, though, enforcement is still outstanding. As we are about to close another chapter in the history of mankind, we appeal to the Government of the United States of America to once more take the lead in showing its humane qualities and ease the pain and suffering of ordinary Cubans. It should therefore suspend all sanctions unconditionally. As we look to the new century we must urge that there be a Middle East of peaceful coexistence, particularly between Israel and the Palestinians. We certainly hope that past events in the Balkans — particularly in Yugoslavia — will not be repeated; and that the principle of self-determination will be respected globally, the situation in East Timor being a case in point; that the various pockets of conflict around the world will be resolved amicably; and that any changes contemplated within the United Nations system will take into account the concerns and aspirations of smaller nations. Grenada believes that, with the collective efforts of all States and the purposeful involvement of the United Nations, democracy, social justice, good governance, solidarity and the economic prosperity of all our Members could be achieved. 25 Finally, my country extends its concern and sympathy to the victims of the earthquake in Turkey and, more recently, to our friends in the Republic of China on Taiwan, a country so helpful to us in the promotion of sustainable development. We are also mindful of the situation in East Timor and hope that as soon as order and security are restored, independence, for which the majority voted, will take root.Speaking to the Assembly one year ago, I demonstrated that the Kingdom of the Netherlands qualified for membership on the Security Council. During the elections two weeks later a substantial majority of this body supported us, and we are grateful to them. As the Netherlands has served on the Council now for more than eight months and is currently its President, I think it is only fair for me to report to all the Assembly members who showed confidence in us. I wish to speak on Africa, on the Council, and on shifting our attention from the State to the people. Most of today's armed conflicts are in Africa. From Sierra Leone to Eritrea and from the Sudan to the Congo and Angola, Africans are fighting Africans. Fighting accompanies all the plights and pains that are known to humankind, from poverty and pestilence to famine, fear and flight. Africa is not a land of troubles alone but also of happiness, not a continent only of catastrophe but also one of hope. The sheer mass of Africa's problems obscures our view of its promise and its potential. In the public mind, an unbalanced view of Africa prevails. That view, I feel, needs to be corrected: we need to rid ourselves of prejudice and think positively. Instead of dejection, we need a deepening commitment. Africa, despite the odds, has come a long way already. Personally, I was struck, at the opening of the general debate, by the sight of an African President of South Africa, speaking in front of an African President of the General Assembly, seated next to an African Secretary- General. It is hard to miss the symbolism of that image. It is one image the founding fathers of this Organization might not have had, one image that by itself already holds a promise for the future: the next century may well be the century of Africa. The Secretary-General, in his report on Africa, has made a link between conflict and prosperity. For this reason, my delegation felt that members of the Council would be well advised to consider this question in some depth, and, in our presidential capacity, we have therefore organized an open-ended public debate, to be held next week, in which the Secretary-General will brief us on the state of Africa. Let me now turn to the question of how to improve the effectiveness of the United Nations, and the Security Council in particular, in coping with crisis situations. On many occasions in its lifetime, I have admired the United Nations for the way it intervened in emergencies. In particular, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and the World Food 21 Programme have enjoyed a long tradition of being in the forefront. Many non-governmental organizations, such as Médecins Sans Frontières and the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), have stood there right beside them. Let me pose a number of questions on how the Security Council performs in emergencies. First, do we not see a crisis coming before it breaks? Do we not have early warning systems? Of course we do. The call for establishing early warning systems has been around for decades; it has become a buzzword used whenever the inadequacies of the United Nations response machinery are being discussed. But in fact, given the level of communications in modern times, policy planners have plenty of information to be forward-looking. It is not the failing of an early warning system that can be put to blame, nor the lack of data. It is, instead, the failure of decision- makers to react adequately. Second question: Why, then, does the United Nations react inadequately? Do we not have preventive diplomacy? We do, not only in terms of bilateral efforts of major nations or of the good offices of the Secretary-General; the Council itself can be proactive. The recent mission it dispatched to East Timor is a good example of how the Council can be more assertive. Missions are an existing instrument that is, in my opinion, in need of an upgrade. In addition, the open debate on East Timor in the Council, at which everybody spoke plain language, fuelled the mounting international pressure on Indonesia. Third question: Is the problem, perhaps, the veto? I know this is a popular view, but it is also a tenuous one. True, we cannot ignore the veto as a factor in the Council's performance record. True again, in our discussions on reform of the Council, the veto is a core element we will one day have to come to grips with. Yet, the problem is an intractable one. Tampering with the veto may itself create the risk of dissolution for the United Nations as a whole. The very fact that a single Member State can hold the entire world community in limbo in the face of harrowing brutalities is affecting the stature and moral force of the Organization. That, too, may be spawning dissolution. It may be argued that, without the veto, the United Nations would not have survived its first 50 years. It may also be argued that, with the veto, the United Nations will not survive the next 50 years. In the first 50 years, the Organization might have fallen apart if the veto had not been there as a buffer against the push and pull of a bipolar world. In the second 50 years, in a multipolar world, repeated inaction by the Security Council would result in parallel actions outside the United Nations framework, pushing the Organization, as a custodian of world peace, more and more into the margins. No matter when or how the debate on the veto will end, this Assembly should meanwhile call on those who possess it to exercise maximum restraint, particularly in humanitarian emergencies. I concur with my German colleague that the permanent five are duty-bound to explain to the world why they are blocking action by the Council. Moreover, we might consider a situation in which a negative vote by a permanent member does not in itself block action. Fourth question: Does the problem lie in the political will, perhaps? To simply say that the political will has been lacking is not only a platitude, but also a very partial view of reality. For part of that reality is that images of all the conflicts on the globe travel around the world with the speed of light. The media broadcasts live images of human suffering. Understandably, such images rouse indignation and horror among millions of viewers. They expect instant action. As people are being better informed about current events, their level of expectation rises. The gap between what is expected and what is possible becomes more visible and more acute. By contrast, diplomacy comes with tools that may be old and respectable, but are also solid and slow. And so, while in a globalizing world human misery is disseminated along the electronic highway, diplomacy today still proceeds along a footpath. This leaves me with the central question: Why is the Council often running behind reality? How can we make it catch up with developments? As I look back at the general debate this week, I think that we are getting very close to identifying the main obstacle. I know that many interventions share a common element — they compare the notion of sovereignty to that of human rights and territorial integrity to humanitarian intervention. To be sure, the question per se is as old as the Charter itself. What is new is the venue. I cannot recall that Foreign Ministers at the General Assembly have talked about this question at any length before. I strongly believe that this issue was bound to surface at this level at some point or another. In 1945, the architects of this Organization included two contradictory premises: respect for territorial integrity and political independence, on the one hand; and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, on the other. 22 The world in those days was ruled by Governments alone, and so the United Nations was made up of States. At the time, the notion of human rights, although grafted onto the Charter with much conviction, was essentially at odds with classical legal thinking. In a way, the tension became even more pronounced at the adoption of the Universal Declaration. After all, for half a millennium the notion of sovereignty had served as the basis of our global political architecture. As the idea was enshrined in the Charter, the founding fathers believed it would stand the test of time. By contrast, the idea of human rights in international relations was, for the most part, a post-war novelty. Indeed, the Charter is much more specific on respect for sovereignty than on respect for human rights. Since 1945, the world has witnessed a gradual shift in that balance, making respect for human rights more and more mandatory and respect for sovereignty less and less stringent. An elaborate body of international human rights law has come to counterbalance the dictates of paragraphs 4 and 7 of Article 2. Today, human rights have come to outrank sovereignty. Increasingly, the prevailing interpretation of the Charter is that it aims to protect individual human beings, not to protect those who abuse them. Today, we regard it as a generally accepted rule of international law that no sovereign State has the right to terrorize its own citizens. Indeed, if the Charter were to be written today, there would be an Article 2.8 saying that nothing contained in the present Charter shall authorize Member States to terrorize their own people. Let me go one step further. The blurring of the boundaries of sovereignty does not stop at human rights. In the future, the notion of sovereignty is going to be tested beyond that. Think of decrepit nuclear installations, massive damage to the environment, lack of water or mass marketing of narcotic drugs. Can responsible statesmen afford to wait until the damage is actually done? Or do they in fact have a duty to prevent it? These are questions which, at some point, the Security Council will have to be involved in. It is not the lack of early warning, not the absence of preventive diplomacy, not the veto per se. I call on every politician and every diplomat in this room to accept that the traditional balance between sovereignty and human rights, between the State and the people is shifting. I am convinced this is one of the paramount issues of our time. Momentum is building, and we should seize it. Let us put the issue squarely on the agenda: the agenda of the United Nations, of the Council and of our parliaments at home. I ask the legal community to keep a keen eye on the groundswell that is developing and to be innovative in its thinking. We politicians have a vast responsibility here. We should steer the discussion towards the people instead of the State. The Security Council should be stronger, not weaker. It should be a credible leader in the maintenance of peace. In order to be credible, it must be consistent, swift and proactive. It must show courage, drive and vision. It must keep changing with the times. It must put people over politics. That is a tall order. Its decision on East Timor gave us hope for the Council's potential.   Allow me first of all, Sir, to extend my most sincere congratulations on your election to the presidency of the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly and to wish you every success in discharging this extremely responsible mission. This election is a well-deserved tribute to the personal qualities of the dean of African Foreign Ministers, as well as evidence of the indisputable authority your country enjoys among the members of the international community. The active and responsible position of Namibia as a member of the Security Council serves as another confirmation that the right choice was made by this General Assembly. I would also like to express our gratitude to your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, for his effective organization of the work of the fifty-third session of the General Assembly. In addition, I have the pleasure to greet three new United Nations Members — Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. Ukraine sincerely welcomes them into our family. The twentieth century will remain, in the history of mankind, as one of unprecedented ideological clashes, with subsequent divisions of the world. The last 10 years, however, have been marked by an entente universelle to build this world on the basis of respect for cultural 21 diversity and universally recognized values. This tumultuous period of transition from bloc rivalry to rapprochement and cooperation obviously lacks stability and clear vision. That is why the role of the United Nations, a firm anchor in these troubled waters, takes on increasing and immense importance for all of its Member States. I would like to place special emphasis on one fundamental factor that determines the significance of the United Nations and makes it universally meaningful. On the eve of the twenty-first century, we have to admit that humankind is still far from achieving the purposes proclaimed in the Charter of the United Nations. But at the same time, we must recognize that this document, which has withstood the test of time, has remained the most ambitious yet most realistic code of world order for more than half a century. There exists no alternative to the order defined by the rules and principles of the United Nations, as no alternative exists to the Organization itself, which is destined to be the centre for the coordinated actions of nations in achieving and maintaining such an order. This vision of the Organization's significance to international life is what has prompted Ukraine to take an active position in carrying out concerted efforts aimed at strengthening the United Nations. Two years ago, we all welcomed the programme of institutional reforms put forward by the Secretary-General, which were designed to adapt and update the Organization and to ensure its ability to promptly respond to the challenges of our time. That powerful start, however, dwindled to a slow pace, while our initial optimism and our readiness to go ahead with the programme of reforms of the United Nations remained largely unrealized. This sort of criticism is all the more pertinent when it comes to the reform of the principal United Nations organ entrusted with primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. For years, all of us seemed to be in agreement on the need to modernize the Security Council and replenish it with new energy and fresh ideas. I am confident that a new impetus should be given to the work of the Working Group on Security Council reform to get the matter off the ground in the course of the current session. What could our response be to the challenges that have haunted humankind for the last 55 years? First, the most important conclusion that we can draw from all of the United Nations deficiencies is this: for the Organization to manage to unite nations around basic universal values, it must have adequate tools to protect these values. Universal values must enjoy full support by means of legal, political, economic and military enforcement. Secondly, the age of confrontation is giving way to an age of cooperation. We should create a world order in which it would be in no one's self-interest to wage wars, oppress national minorities or exert economic pressure on other nations. A broad and ramified system of regional and subregional cooperation would serve this purpose by upholding a universal code of conduct. In this context, I wish to refer to the recent summit held in the Ukrainian city of Yalta, called “Baltic-Black Sea Cooperation: to the Integrated Europe of the 21st Century Without Dividing Lines”. It would be no exaggeration to say that there is here an unavoidable parallel with Yalta 1945. That post-war summit was an example of how three people decided the fate of the world and divided Europe. Yalta 1999, on the contrary, was evidence of how 22 neighbouring countries found sufficient motivation to resolve their problems together and be unanimous in determining their future in a United Europe. We are particularly encouraged by the increased attention paid by the Security Council and the United Nations in general to humanitarian issues. A major lesson learned from the eruption of numerous local and regional conflicts is that there is an obvious and urgent need to respond to the challenges posed by humanitarian crises and flagrant mass violations of human rights. The primary role of the Security Council in maintaining and restoring international peace must be reiterated. This role is expressed in the clear and proud language of the Charter. The past and continuing experience of the Council underscores the importance of the adoption of a holistic approach that brings into prominence both security and humanitarian issues. As Secretary-General Kofi Annan imaginatively put it yesterday, a global era requires global engagement, and the collective interest is the national interest. How can this ambitious goal be achieved? An important step forward towards the goal of protecting human life and dignity is, of course, the ongoing process of establishing the International Criminal Court. Today, a year after the remarkable conclusion of the Rome Diplomatic Conference, we are pleased to observe that the significance of the adoption of the Court’s Statute is widely and rightly recognized as it relates not only to the codification and progressive development of international 22 law but also to the system of international security in the next century. It is this perception of the nature and purposes of the future judicial institution that determines the position of the Government of Ukraine with regard to the signing of the Rome Statute. I would like to take this opportunity to inform representatives that Ukraine intends to sign the Statute in the course of the current session of the General Assembly. Guided by its belief that the United Nations and regional organizations should play a key role in conflict prevention, Ukraine was one of the first to come forward with peace proposals during the initial stage of the Kosovo crisis. The peace plan of President Kuchma of Ukraine proved to be realistic, since most of its provisions were consonant with the provisions of Security Council resolution 1244 (1999). For years, Ukraine has been active in United Nations peacekeeping operations. Last July, the President and the Parliament of Ukraine decided to send an 800-strong contingent from Ukraine to participate in KFOR. The Ukrainian military have gained a very positive profile, merited by their earlier service in the United Nations Protection Force, the Implementation Force and the Stabilization Force in Bosnia. Their expertise and contributions outweighed by far the financial costs entailed. We fully recognize our share of responsibility in the common cause of restoring and strengthening peace in the Balkans. At the same time, recent events in Kosovo and East Timor provide evidence that we should continue to increase the level of security for peacekeepers. As a co-author of the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel, Ukraine appeals for the elaboration of further practical measures to implement its provisions. The lesson of Kosovo proves that as long as human rights or the rights of national minorities and international law are ignored, the world will continue to be threatened by humanitarian disasters. It is therefore necessary to pay special attention to regions with so-called frozen conflicts: areas with the potential for new outbursts of violence, refugee flows and economic recession. As a guarantor of peaceful settlement in Transdniestria, Moldova, and an active supporter of the peace process in Abkhazia, Georgia, and in Nagorny Karabakh, Azerbaijan, Ukraine is doing its utmost to translate the relevant agreements into real peace settlements. Joint efforts are also necessary in post-conflict rehabilitation. Ukraine therefore welcomes both the idea and the adoption of the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe and is actively proposing specific projects in cooperation with its neighbours. The purpose of the Pact is not only to help reconstruct the Balkans but, most importantly, to give those countries a clear perspective on European integration. Integration into European and Euro-Atlantic structures remains the key priority of Ukraine’s foreign policy. Membership in the family of European nations and sharing common values means economic growth, stable democratic development and the consolidation of the European identity of Ukrainians. At the regional level, Ukraine is an active participant in the Organization for Black Sea Economic Cooperation, the Council of the Baltic Sea States, the Central European Initiative and the GUUAM forum, to which Georgia, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan and Moldova belong. I have already mentioned the Yalta Conference and the summit of the leaders of Baltic and Black Sea States. In addition, last May Ukraine hosted a summit meeting of eight Central European States. We are developing confidence-building measures on a bilateral basis with our neighbours and in a multilateral framework to reduce naval military activity in the Black Sea region. Pursuing the line that intensive cooperation is the best remedy for conflicts, Ukraine is engaged in various trilateral cooperative agreements promoting free economic areas and transborder projects. As one of the founders of the United Nations, Ukraine continues to make its contribution to United Nations efforts in strengthening international peace and security, the non-proliferation regime, disarmament and arms control, crisis management, the promotion of economic and social development, human rights and freedoms and compliance with the fundamental principles of international law. By fostering internal harmony in society, creating an environment of stability and shaping a vast network of regional cooperation, Ukraine is striving to make the fullest possible use of its rich experience and constructive potential for the benefit of the whole international community. Over three years ago, Ukraine voluntarily renounced its nuclear stockpile — the third largest in the world — and it is strictly abiding by its commitments as a non-nuclear State. We should multiply our efforts to enhance the efficiency and universality of the Treaty on 23 the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). In this context, it is of the utmost importance to break the stalemate in the preparatory process for the 2000 NPT Review Conference. Ukraine has signed the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test- Ban Treaty (CTBT) and is now successfully completing legislative procedures to fulfil its international obligations under this Treaty. Last February, our country became a party to the Ottawa Convention banning the use of anti- personnel landmines, while in March Ukraine’s Government decided to prolong the moratorium on exports of all types of anti-personnel landmines. My country is ready to participate in the development of collective measures to fight the proliferation of and illegal trafficking in small arms and light weapons. We support the initiative of Canada and the Netherlands to establish an international regime for the control of light weapons and to start negotiations on working out a convention on the prevention and combating of the illegal transportation of firearms and light weapons. Aware of the danger of the uncontrolled circulation and accumulation of conventional weapons, Ukraine strictly abides by Security Council and General Assembly resolutions imposing restrictions on international arms trafficking. All of these factors explain Ukraine’s ambition to be elected as a non-permanent member of the Security Council. Our ambition is particularly strong since it is our first bid for this seat as an independent State. If elected, Ukraine would base its position in the Security Council on the following fundamental principles: paying adequate attention to conflicts and tense situations in different parts of the world, judging them by the real requirements of each particular case; using all political and diplomatic means available to the Security Council to prevent or manage conflicts; increasing the importance of the humanitarian dimension among the Council’s priorities; and enhancing the ability of non-members of the Security Council to influence the decision-making process in that body. In addition, there is a need to analyse the present mechanism of sanctions to ensure that their imposition is balanced and well-grounded, in particular taking into account eventual negative consequences for third countries. Ukraine remains deeply concerned at the problems of Africa. Our concerns are nurtured by the strong traditional ties of friendship that unite Ukraine with African nations. One could hardly disagree that Africa is a continent with unlimited potential for economic and social development. At the same time, it is absolutely imperative that the international community take very concrete and effective steps to assist African States in developing that potential and in responding to the challenges facing their continent. Nowadays it is difficult to blame the United Nations for the lack of attention to Africa. For example, at this very moment, the members of the Security Council are responding to a briefing on recent developments in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, given by the President of the Republic of Zambia, His Excellency Mr. Frederick Chiluba. In just a few days, the Security Council will hold another meeting to reaffirm its commitment to the cause of peace and prosperity in Africa. I intend to present my delegation's contribution to the deliberations of the Council, and will make more specific remarks on this matter in the course of that meeting. At the same time, Ukraine hopes that commitment to Africa on the part of the Security Council and the United Nations as a whole will be reflected in concrete deeds that benefit Africa. The situation in the Middle East requires closer attention by the Security Council. We believe that the Security Council should send strong encouragement to all the parties to the Middle East peace process. It is time to come back to the negotiating table to find a final compromise solution to the pending problems on the basis of the relevant Security Council resolutions. In that context, Ukraine welcomes the recent signing of the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum on 4 September, brought about thanks to the constructive approach of the new Israeli Government and to the position taken by the Palestinian leadership. East Timor continues to be a hot spot. Ukraine welcomed the success of the 30 August 1999 popular consultation of the East Timorese people, which was possible thanks to the constructive position taken by the Government of Indonesia and the active intermediary mission of the Secretary-General. Ukraine supported the Security Council's adoption of its resolution 1264 (1999), which authorized the establishment of a multinational force pursuant to the request of the Government of Indonesia. The past year has been marked by an unprecedented outbreak of terrorist acts in various parts of the world. We are convinced that intensified international efforts to combat terrorism need a more concentrated focus on the underlying causes of this extremely acute international phenomenon, on its deep social roots and on relevant 24 historical conditions, as well as on situations that may give rise to international terrorism and endanger international peace and security. At the same time, whatever actions are undertaken at the international, regional or national levels, they must all be in full conformity with the basic principles of international law and must not run counter to the fundamental provisions of the United Nations Charter. Underdevelopment and impoverishment, the threat of marginalization, the burden of external debt, a lack of resources, and ecological disasters pose a real threat to international peace and sustainable development. Circumstances such as the global financial crisis and the war in Kosovo have considerably impeded economic progress in many parts of the world. Ukraine has managed to curb its losses and maintain macroeconomic stabilization since August 1998. On the other hand, the curtailment of navigation on the Danube has paralysed economic the activities of Ukrainian shipping companies, ports and enterprises. The total accumulated losses of Ukraine amount today to more than $300 million. Together with Romania, Bulgaria and other interested parties, we are ready to clear the waterway for the soonest possible resumption of navigation as the best way to cope with the humanitarian hardships of Balkan peoples. Speaking about global issues requiring joint efforts of the international community, I must again emphasize the problem of Chernobyl, which is so painful for Ukraine and for its neighbours, Belarus and Russia. Our country is meeting its commitments to decommission the Chernobyl nuclear power plant as envisaged in the memorandum of understanding between the Government of Ukraine and Governments of the Group of Seven and the European Union. It therefore has every ground to expect the fulfilment by its partners of their obligations. We welcomed the statement issued by the Group of Seven in Cologne last June regarding the convening of a second pledging conference for the mobilization of financial resources to implement the working plan on the transformation of the Shelter facility into an ecologically safe system. We consider this to be a confirmation by our partners of their commitment to the memorandum of understanding. From this rostrum I call upon all potential donors to take part in that conference and to make pledges to the Chernobyl Shelter fund, to enable it to reach the required amount of just $770 million. According to the Human Development Report published by the United Nations Development Programme, expenditures for cigarettes in Europe amounted to $50 billion in 1998 alone. Compared to this, the amount needed for Chernobyl looks like quite a small price to save the environment of that vast region. The present century gave the world so notable a document as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Still, we have witnessed the most brutal and massive violations of those rights. Famine, genocide, ethnic cleansing, torture and various forms of discrimination continue to haunt mankind. That is why the strengthening of international mechanisms to monitor human rights violations is especially urgent today. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights should play a leading role. Cases of the most massive violations of human rights should be considered by the Security Council with a view to taking preventive or coercive measures. Hence, it is imperative to strengthen the role of international law in international relations in order to ensure strict observance of the main norms and principles, first and foremost respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity and the peaceful settlement of disputes. Ukraine continues to support the International Court of Justice as the Organization's principal legal institution. The establishment of a world system that would guarantee peace and security, prosperity and sustainable economic development, and the preservation of the environment for future generations requires decisive joint action by the international community. That process should be led by a reformed and renewed United Nations, an organization with great experience and opportunities to solve problems of global dimensions. For that purpose, the General Assembly has approved a comprehensive programme for United Nations reform — by the way, under the presidency of my predecessor Hennadiy Y. Udovenko, who is present in this Hall today. But while debating it, we did not notice that two years had passed and that we were approaching the brink of the millennium. The prominent Ukrainian philosopher of the eighteenth century, Grigory Skovoroda, said that a waste of time is the heaviest of all losses. Let us bring to life what we have conceived for the benefit of the United Nations.  It gives me pleasure, Sir, to extend to you on behalf of the State of Kuwait our warm congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty- fourth session. Given your extensive experience in international affairs and your personal skills and ability, we are confident that you will be able to guide the deliberations of the Assembly effectively. Let me assure Your Excellency that our delegation will cooperate with you in a diligent and constructive spirit in order to reach our common goals. 16 I wish also to pay tribute to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Didier Opertti, who demonstrated good stewardship in his efforts to enhance the role of the Assembly. Let me take this opportunity to express once again our deep gratitude to the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, for his tireless endeavours to reform the structure and streamline the functioning of the Organization with a view to bringing it more in line with the ever- changing realities of modern times. Kuwait welcomes the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga to membership in the United Nations. Our wish is that these new Member States will enhance the role and effectiveness of our Organization in the fulfilment of the objectives and purposes of the Charter. The wheel of time is now bringing us closer to the end of the twentieth century and entry into the third millennium. Against the backdrop of this truly historic benchmark, we think that the world community should renew its resolve to achieve higher standards of living and political stability and security, all of which are essential factors for progress. With a deeper and greater sense of resolve, humankind's future can be better than our present. Tragically, the twentieth century has seen two bitter world wars, in addition to numerous bilateral, regional and civil conflicts that claimed the lives of millions and millions of innocent human beings. Those innumerable wars put too many spikes in the wheels of growth and progress of many developing nations. Our cherished hopes and aspirations were always directed towards fulfilling the long-standing human dream of using the immense scientific and technological discoveries and know-how acquired especially in the past few decades of the twentieth century to address or solve the major and pressing global problems and phenomena facing the human race. However, about one fifth of the human race suffers from hunger; hundreds of millions of people live below the poverty line; the arms race, for reasons of security or territorial expansion, consumes enormous proportions of national budgets or assets to the detriment of economic and development programmes; massacres driven by ethnic or political motives have become excuses for liquidating opposition forces and consolidating political dictatorships; human rights violations persist under different justifications; and the phenomenon of terrorism, which is becoming increasingly intertwined with drug abuse and illicit trafficking in drugs, imperils the stability of societies and States, with the potential risks of jeopardizing security and stability far beyond national borders. In our view, the international community must cope with these devastating dangers in a more serious fashion in order to rid the world of their evil. Also, the millennium has seen many devastating natural disasters that resulted in vast human losses and extensive property damage. The most recent tragic example is the earthquake that struck the friendly Turkish Republic in August. We are confident that Turkey will eventually overcome the dire consequences of that national catastrophe. Along with many other countries and international relief and aid organizations, Kuwait hastily responded by airlifting basic human relief assistance and supplies. Our response emanated from humanitarian motives and our sense of good neighbourliness. In this regard, I wish to recall the decision by the States of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) to donate $400 million to alleviate the impact of that severe quake. In the same vein, we wish to extend our warm condolences and sympathy to the friendly Government and people of Greece and to the families of victims of the tremor that hit there earlier this month. In order to draw some lessons from the recurrence of such disasters, Kuwait calls for expanding and reinforcing the role and effectiveness of the United Nations disaster relief organs. Such a role would help coordinate the contributions of the various States in order to fulfil their desired and optimal goals, to the best of their capabilities. My delegation now strongly feels that the international community should not underestimate the role and achievements of the United Nations system. Its outstanding track record over the past five decades should, in our view, deepen our appreciation for the valuable and credible manner in which the United Nations system addressed and resolved many conflicts and problems across the globe. Indeed, the Untied Nations saved mankind many potential tragedies. Hence, one cannot really imagine our contemporary world without this Organization, to which Kuwait is honoured to belong. Against the backdrop of the legacy inherited by the present generation and the possible challenges that will face us in the future, preparations are under way to convene the Millennium Assembly session here in New York in September next year. Given its historical context and the level of global participation, we hope that the session will prove to be a true benchmark in the history 17 of humanity. Kuwait feels that such an historic occasion requires proper and adequate preparation to ensure a truly meaningful outcome in terms of sketching the future path of the Organization in the new century. The issues on the global agenda are all serious and pressing, and some new vision is needed to deal with them. In any case, we are convinced that international cooperation and coordination and consolidation of human efforts will remain crucial to any viable endeavours to address those obstinate and interlinked problems within the framework of the United Nations. Therefore, continued support to ensure reinvigoration of the United Nations remains in order. As we look forward to the millennial summit as an unprecedented event, we think that the forthcoming historic occasion should not be a replay of the United Nations fiftieth anniversary celebrations, which were a largely ceremonial and symbolic event. The gathering of world leaders should go beyond the usual ritual of delivering speeches and photo sessions. Rather, our objective should be charting out a meaningful path for the future in a pragmatic, action-oriented fashion. The new vision should focus on business-like treatment of universal issues such as justice for all, equality, harmonious co-existence, cooperation, inter-cultural dialogues and promotion of respect for human rights, and advancing economic and social development to the top of our global agenda. At this juncture, allow me to highlight the fact that the State of Kuwait has been ranked number one in the Arab world and number thirty-five in the world in the United Nations Development Programme(UNDP) Human Development Report of 1999. Kuwait will, God willing, continue its steady efforts towards the improvement of the economic and social conditions across the country, guided by, among other factors, the Human Development indices. In the same vein, I wish to recall the recent initiative by His Highness the Amir of the State of Kuwait, who proclaimed a decree granting the women of Kuwait full political rights to participate in parliamentary elections and to run as candidates for the national assembly. This initiative is yet another example of the keen interest on the part of His Highness the Amir to consolidate the democratic system in Kuwaiti society and to expand public participation in civil life. Indeed, it is a testimony to and recognition of the prominent role and the valuable contributions by Kuwaiti women to our society. Another important goal we hope the Millennium Assembly will achieve is the expansion of the membership of the Security Council and the display of more transparency in the Council's procedures and methods of work. The question of reform of the Security Council has been exhaustively discussed over the past six years. Time has indeed come for proper action with a view to allowing all United Nations Member States to participate in the decision-making process in a more representative and equitable manner, under controls that would ensure a balance between effectiveness and larger membership. The reform should also ensure the special responsibility and ability of the Council members to maintain international peace and security. Following the end of the cold war, the world has witnessed many challenges that threatened international peace and security in various regions. As a result of the general ease in international relations and the growing rapprochement between East and West and the mounting desire for global cooperation and coordination, the Untied Nations system, through the Security Council, the primary organ responsible for the maintenance of international peace and security, sought to address and manage those crises according to the ways and means that were set forth in the Charter. Yes, the United Nations has achieved substantial progress, though in varying degrees, and sometimes at a very heavy price in terms of losing dedicated personnel and peacekeepers on behalf of the cause of peace and in the service of humanity. Even when the United Nations might appear to be faltering in performing its mission, sometimes perhaps in a rather embarrassing way, the theoretical question that always arises in our minds is: would that situation have been better had the United Nations not intervened? And the resultant answer that we arrive at is invariably: absolutely not. Lapses, setbacks and failures are all, unfortunately, an inevitable tax that has to be paid in our pursuit of excellence and progress, good intentions notwithstanding. The sanctions system, under Article 41, Chapter VII, of the Charter, is one of the tools and methods that the Security Council found itself impelled to resort to in dealing with a number of States. The objective was to make them change their behaviour and dissuade them from the pursuit of policies of aggression, which run counter to the fundamental norms and principles of international law and the Charter of the United Nations. Experience on the ground has proved this method to be effective. On two occasions the Council suspended the sanctions imposed against some States once they had complied fully with their obligations under the relevant Security Council resolutions. This proves in no uncertain terms that the sanctions were not an end in themselves, 18 but a means used to impose respect for the Charter and the Security Council resolutions. Acting within the terms of its responsibilities, the Security Council established at the end of last January three separate panels to evaluate the extent of Iraq's compliance with its obligations under Security Council resolutions relating to Iraq's invasion of the State of Kuwait. The Secretary-General himself participated in the selection of the members of those panels, eminent, internationally known persons who were efficient and neutral experts. The panels met for a period of two months. They also sought the expert advice of many specialists and heard the views and presentations of many witnesses. Following extensive meetings and intense deliberations, the panellists reached a set of conclusions and recommendations that I shall briefly summarize as follows. First, the panel concerned with disarmament concluded that there were still a number of important and serious matters that had not yet been resolved. It emphasized the need for the return of the inspection teams to Iraq as soon as possible under an integrated and reinforced monitoring and verification system based on relevant Security Council resolutions. Secondly, with regard to the humanitarian situation the panel submitted several constructive proposals and recommendations which, if implemented, would improve the humanitarian conditions in Iraq. Perhaps the most important recommendation was the call to improve the operational mechanisms of the oil-for-food programme. Also, the panel invited the Government of Iraq to ensure equitable distribution of humanitarian goods and to pay due attention to meeting the needs of the vulnerable groups of the Iraqi population. Thirdly, the panel concerned with Kuwaiti and third- country prisoners of war and the return of stolen property to Kuwait, the panel thought that in regard to the prisoners of war issue, cooperation by Iraq with the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and the Tripartite Commission had so far been below expectations. The panel was not satisfied with the Iraqi explanations of why Iraq had failed to provide information on the files submitted to it by the ICRC. The panel urged the Government of Iraq to reconsider its decision not to participate in the Tripartite Commission and its technical subcommittee. With regard to the return of Kuwaiti property, the panel concluded that Iraq had not fully complied with paragraph 2 of Security Council resolution 686 (1991), which demands that Iraq return all stolen property to Kuwait. Although those panels were established by the Security Council mainly to explore the possibility of mitigating the impact of the sanctions regime and improving the humanitarian conditions in Iraq, it is deeply regrettable that Iraq itself has declined to participate in their work. Iraq has also rejected the conclusions and recommendations reached by these panels. In this context, the Secretary-General, in paragraph 81 of his report (A/54/1) on the work of the Organization submitted to the current session of the Assembly, referred to Iraq's failure to fulfil its obligations and set the humanitarian requirements that Iraq must meet. The Secretary-General states: “Relations with Iraq took a turn for the worse during the year, despite a brief period of compliance with the Memorandum of Understanding signed by Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz and myself in February 1998. In the face of continuing Iraqi non- compliance, the use of force by two Member States and the division in the Security Council that followed it was predictable. Our principal demands remain unchanged, however: Iraq must fully comply with all relevant Security Council resolutions; the international community must be assured that Iraq no longer has the capacity to develop or use weapons of mass destruction; missing Kuwaiti and third country nationals must be accounted for; and Kuwait's irreplaceable archives must be returned. Meanwhile, the people of Iraq continue to suffer the effects of sanctions”. For purely humanitarian reasons enjoined by our Islamic religion and by all other religious as well as international principles and norms, the State of Kuwait urges Iraq to put an immediate end to the plight of Kuwaiti and third-country prisoners, returning them to their families or fully accounting for them. Iraqi insistence that there are no such prisoners inside Iraq and that these people should be considered as missing persons is not an answer. What is at stake are the lives of people, who should be treated as trusts in our collective conscience. Since last January, Iraq has been boycotting the meetings of the Tripartite Commission and its technical subcommittee, bodies that operate under the aegis of the ICRC with the objective of locating and identifying those innocent victims. The following questions arise here. Is Iraq indeed serious in dealing with this important humanitarian matter? Does Iraq's attitude show any good faith? Would anyone safely claim that Iraq is working on implementing 19 relevant Security Council resolutions while boycotting the meetings of ICRC-sponsored humanitarian bodies? Only internationally established institutions can handle this issue. We believe that earnest and sincere cooperation with the Tripartite Commission is the key to the resolution of this humanitarian problem, which really does not tolerate any further delay. An intensive effort is currently under way within the Security Council to pass a new resolution related to the remaining obligations on Iraq, taking into consideration the recommendations made by the three aforementioned evaluation panels. While Kuwait concurs with the good intentions underlying the current efforts by members of the Security Council, which take the form of a draft resolution put forward by the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, together with some other related views, we would like to reaffirm the important need to maintain the unity of the Security Council in dealing with this issue. Also, we demand assurances that Iraq will remain committed to all the requirements of Security Council resolution 687 (1991), which should be treated as one indivisible political and legal unit. In the meantime, Kuwait reiterates its full sympathy with the suffering of our brotherly people of Iraq. The Government of Iraq alone bears full responsibility for the perpetuation of those hardships. Kuwait, for its part, confirms its support for and endorsement of all Security Council resolutions aimed at easing those travails through the oil-for-food programme. Furthermore, we wish to reiterate our firm commitment to the need for the preservation of the independence, sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of Iraq. Out of concern for and interest in bolstering the underpinnings of security and stability in our region, the State of Kuwait confirms its support for all efforts aimed at resolving the dispute between the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran over the Emirates' three islands by peaceful means. These would include the referral of the matter to the International Court of Justice. In the meantime, Kuwait welcomes the willingness of the friendly Islamic Republic of Iran to start direct negotiations with the United Arab Emirates. We hope the tripartite ministerial commission formed by the Cooperation Council of the Gulf Arab States will be able to initiate working mechanisms for beginning direct negotiations that could lead to the peaceful resolution of the dispute over the three Emirates' islands: the Lesser and Greater Tunbs and Abu Musa. This avenue would indeed contribute to confidence building and to the promotion of security and stability throughout the region. It would also expand and deepen cooperation between the Islamic Republic of Iran and all States in the region. Kuwait welcomes the Sharm El-Sheikh Memorandum recently signed between the Palestinian Authority and Israel, which sets forth specific steps for the implementation of the Wye River accords. However, we demand that the new Administration in Israel do its part on reviving the peace process and resuming negotiations on all tracks. Israel must demonstrate honest commitment to the principles and operational framework of the overall peace process, which is anchored in Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) and the land-for-peace formula. This includes fulfilment of all obligations and agreements signed with the Palestinian Authority within the peace process, with a view to reinstating all legitimate Arab rights, including the restoration to the brotherly Palestinian people of their full national rights, especially the establishment of their independent State on their national territory, with Jerusalem as its capital. The Government of Israel must also cease forthwith its illegitimate settlement-building and land-confiscation policy. It should also end its unilateral measures to create de facto realities on the ground, especially in the city of Jerusalem. Furthermore, Palestinian refugees must be reassured of their right to return to their homes in accordance with relevant United Nations resolutions. We are baffled by, and accordingly reject, the references, declarations and insinuations recently made that promote the notion of resettling the Palestinian refugees outside their own ancestral homeland. Such a notion represents a stark violation of the fundamental principles of international law, United Nations resolutions and the inalienable right to self-determination. Furthermore, a resettlement plan would be an infringement on the sovereignty of other States and an interference in their domestic affairs. Israel's withdrawal from the occupied Syrian territory in the Golan Heights back to the 4 June 1967 lines is indeed the litmus test of Israel's genuine commitment to the land-for-peace principle. Moreover, we demand that Israel end once and for all its repeated acts of aggression against the sovereignty and independence of our sister State, the Lebanese Republic. We stress the need for an immediate Israeli pull-out from southern Lebanon and West Bekaa in accordance with Security Council resolution 425 (1978), which must be implemented without any restrictions or conditions. In this context, 20 Kuwait emphatically notes that the Syrian and Lebanese tracks must be recognized as organically interconnected if a just and lasting peace is to be established. In addition, while Kuwait endorses and appreciates the efforts of the two sponsors of the peace process, together with the European Union, to revitalize that process, we call upon all of them to redouble their efforts at this critical stage of the peace process. At the regional level, and given the long-standing historical and human bonds, as well as the close economic interests fashioned by the geographic location of the Arabian Gulf region and its proximity to India and Pakistan, with which the State of Kuwait maintains friendly relations, we appeal to both countries to resolve their bilateral dispute over Jammu and Kashmir by peaceful means and in accordance with United Nations resolutions. We sincerely hope that India and Pakistan will engage in a meaningful dialogue and draw on the deep and rich reservoir of wisdom available to the leaderships on both sides of the divide. We think that their economic resources would better be utilized for the development and welfare of their peoples and for enhancing security and stability in that sensitive region. Mutual confidence and cooperation should prevail over intense rivalry in the arena of terror. Kuwait welcomes the outcome of the popular consultation held under United Nations supervision in East Timor late last month. The ballot gave the East Timorese the chance to determine their future freely, with the guarantee and cooperation of the friendly Government of Indonesia. Kuwait has followed with sadness and pain the bloody events that have taken place in East Timor. However, we welcome the Security Council resolution to establish a multinational force to put an end to violence and to restore security and public order to that Territory. We wish that force full success in its mission. We also call upon neighbouring countries to respect the mandate of the force and to help the people of East Timor fulfil their legitimate aspirations. In this regard, Kuwait wishes to give credit to the friendly Government of Indonesia for its commitment and efforts at putting an end to the violence, the killing and destruction that ravaged East Timor in the wake of the referendum. Credit is also due Indonesia for agreeing to the formation and peaceful reception of the multinational force. Still on the international scene, Kuwait welcomes the peace accord reached between the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on Kosovo as a first step towards the resolution of the dispute and the return of displaced persons to their homes in Kosovo. This will eventually put an end to the conflict and restore peace and security to the people, who have the right to live in freedom and dignity. The Balkan crisis, which was precipitated by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, has demonstrated once again that the United Nations role is indispensable to the maintenance of international peace and security and for lending legitimacy and credibility to any solutions reached, be it in a regional context or an international one. Kuwait supports and encourages the United Nations to continue its role until all aspects of the crisis have definitively resolved. The world today is living through a communications revolution that has helped to shorten distances between States and to speed up global connections, thus turning our planet into a village where people instantly react to events that take place anywhere across the globe. International economic integration has become part and parcel of development plans and programmes that aim at achieving progress and prosperity for nations. Unilateral isolationist policies have become relics of the past and untenable under a new world order that is becoming increasingly and rapidly universal. The new order, known as “globalization”, requires joint efforts in order to lay down the principles, regulations and arrangements that seek to ensure progress and well-being by creating new prospects for the flow of financial and technical aid to help national States project their ability to contribute to the building of a better future for humanity. Hence, developed countries are expected to increase their economic and technical assistance to developing States and to expand the exchange of information and technical know-how in an attempt to narrow the ever-widening gap in the fields of technology and communications. Moreover, international efforts must be invigorated in the face of a new emerging challenge posed by the dwindling sources of fresh water. Water reserves should be utilized on a just basis and with a sense of sharing in the use of this main artery of life itself. Bearing that vision in mind, Kuwait is pursuing its efforts to support development projects in many developing countries. The Kuwait Fund for Economic Development offers long-term financial loans at concessional interest rates. Also, my country contributes, within its means, to many development projects and programmes that are jointly financed by international financial institutions, regional 21 organizations and the United Nations agencies. Kuwait intends to pursue this path out of its conviction that development is the key to progress and a main incentive for building security and stability. Furthermore, reaching out with assistance to those in need is a moral obligation on those who are more privileged. This would indeed strengthen international cooperation, openness and mutual respect among nations. Now, as our world is about to bid farewell to the current century, good-hearted and decent people nurture various hopes and ambitions for serving humanity and building a better life on this small planet. We all hope to create and conserve a safe and healthy environment, free of threats to the security of all life. As we look down the road to the future, we can hopefully see a fulfilment of the divine prophecy of justice for humanity when we heed God's words, calling on us to feed the hungry and to ensure peace of mind and security for all human beings. We wish world leaders who will be assembled in this Hall in September next year success in defining a road map for the future, in setting a new vision and in renewing our common resolve to establish peace, justice and development for all peoples of the world. First let convey my warmest congratulations to you, Mr. President, on your election. As we enter the new millennium, the United Nations is crossing a significant threshold, and we need a seasoned hand to lead us. Your long experience with the 23 United Nations, first as a freedom fighter, now as Foreign Minister of Namibia, will stand us in good stead. Let me also thank your distinguished predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti of Uruguay, for the good work he did last year. As a fellow small State, Singapore would also like to warmly welcome the three new Members to the United Nations: Kiribati, Nauru and Tonga. We hope that they will also join the forum of small States. I wish to pose this question: Will the United Nations survive in the twenty-first century? I have framed this question provocatively because I believe that the United Nations has not yet adequately come to grips with the central challenges of its next phase of development. Unless it does so, my question may not be just rhetorical. To be sure, the United Nations has been seized of efforts at reform for several years. But what is required must go beyond the modification of existing institutions or organizational structures. The issue is not just how to make the General Assembly, the Security Council, the Secretariat or other organs work more effectively, although that is important. But we cannot succeed if we neglect the broader context of such endeavours. The key question is whether the current United Nations is conceptually and constitutionally sound. The simple but hard-won lesson of this century's experiments with international organizations, from the League to the United Nations, is that the United Nations must work within the framework of the state system. If the United Nations has worked better or has lasted longer than the League, it is because the United Nations has accommodated the state system rather than posed a direct threat to it. Its Member States see the United Nations as an additional protective umbrella, not as a body that diminishes them. The League's Covenant was based on different premises. It emphasized disarmament. It promoted collective security. It required States to submit disputes to arbitration and judicial settlement. By doing so, the League posed an explicit challenge to the rights of States. On the other hand, the United Nations can do nothing that its Members do not expressly allow it to do. Our Charter is clear and explicit that the United Nations is based on the principle of the sovereign equality of its Members. It also stresses the concomitant principle of non-interference in internal affairs. But these premises are now under pressure. As the twentieth century draws to a close, the state system is on the verge of major transformation. This will profoundly affect all Members and the United Nations itself. I do not predict the end of the nation State. The concept of sovereignty is undergoing profound modification, but it does not seem likely that the nation State will simply disappear. No viable alternative to organizing international political life has yet emerged, no matter how inadequate or ineffective the current form may have become. Radical proposals for restructuring the framework of the state system will inevitably invite disappointment. The United Nations must therefore work within the existing framework, even as that framework is being transformed. Herein lie the subtlety and the difficulty of the new challenge. Two forces are impelling change: the pressures of a truly integrated world economy and the end of the cold war. Neither is adequately understood; even less understood is their interplay. This dialectic simultaneously impels an unprecedented degree of international cooperation and makes international cooperation more difficult to achieve. There have always been issues which required States to work together. Interdependence is not new. In a sense, it is as old as the state system. To be sure, the number and scope of transnational issues that require international cooperative action have now expanded, but this is a change of degree, not of kind. Globalization is not just more interdependence. While globalization's effects are most evident in finance and economics, there are far-reaching implications across a range of issues. It affects the very notion of statehood and government as they have hitherto been understood. The essential function of any Government is to govern — to provide public goods and services to its citizens within its borders. But in a globalized economy, national borders no longer include sufficient territory to function as self-contained economic units. Financial geography and economic geography no longer coincide with political geography. This mismatch means that Governments no longer have a monopoly of legitimate 24 power within their own state boundaries. This does not challenge the de jure sovereignty of States, but profoundly alters every Government's de facto capacity to govern. The challenge is not, as it was throughout history, merely of one State circumscribing the sovereignty of another — of the powerful forcing their will on the weak. The real challenge is now within each State, no matter how powerful. Dealing with this phenomenon poses a different kind of challenge than just insisting on the legal concept of sovereignty or persuading Governments to work together on specific issues. It forces a reconceptualization of the very idea of government and statehood. It requires a complete change of mindset by the powerful as well as by the weak. This will be difficult and painful to achieve. What is required is an unprecedented and qualitatively new kind of international cooperation, not just cooperation based on the alignment of national interests, as has occurred throughout history. It requires the redefinition of what constitutes both “nation” and “interests”. States can no longer just collide or cooperate at the boundaries of their sovereignties. It demands nothing less than shared responsibility for governance and a pooling of sovereignties. For this new kind of international cooperation to be constructed and take root, the imperative of cooperation must be supported by practical experience that demonstrates that it is superior to any other political alternative. It is here that the intersection and interplay of globalization and the post-cold-war international order complicate matters. The end of the cold war at first seemed to promise a new dawn for the United Nations, opening up vast potentialities for international cooperation unfettered by ideological conflict. But these hopes have now been dashed. In reality, the end of the cold war may have made international cooperation less likely. Paradoxically, the ever-greater integration of the world economy has been accompanied by increasing political fragmentation. The cold war was not just an ideological geopolitical struggle; the cold war imposed identities that transcended nationalism. Even those who sought to escape the cold war in fact defined themselves in relation to it. Irrespective of which side we stood for, the cold war was the organizing principle for international action and the concept by which we understood global events. To those disoriented by the pressures of globalization, the end of the cold war provided an opportunity to seek reassurance and a new identity in real or imagined ethnic nationalisms. The resulting proliferation of States and the lack of a clear organizing principle for international action have made cooperation problematic. The end of ideological conflict and the increasing influence of market principles in all areas of life are making economic efficiency an essential condition for evaluating political actions. But globalization has simultaneously eroded the ability of States to muster the political consensus of their own citizens for such action. It is therefore not very surprising that the right kind of new response has not yet been forthcoming. Of course, lip service is being paid to the need for new international institutions to deal with new transnational problems or to the reform of existing international institutions, the United Nations among them. But the more usual reaction to the mismatch between economic geography and the political geography of state boundaries has been defensive or a sterile triumphalism: a new protectionism, xenophobic or nostalgic nationalisms or, where a country feels strong and confident enough, a new kind of extraterritoriality, reminiscent of the nineteenth century. Strong States try to project their national laws beyond their boundaries or insist on their standards as conditionalities for trade and other kinds of cooperative interactions. The recognition that problems are global, and the almost universal acceptance of the market, commands at best only superficial international consensus. The real responses, the most concrete and practical responses, have been regional rather than universal. This process is most advanced in Europe and North America, through the European Union and the North American Free Trade Agreement, and less so in Latin America and Asia, through the Southern Cone Common Market, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council and the Association of South-East Asian Nations Free Trade Area. Tentative linkages are being explored between regions. Africa has been only peripherally engaged. But relying on regionalism as more than a stopgap in a globalized world creates a latent instability. If projected unchecked into the twenty-first century, this must ultimately affect basic issues of war and peace. It is obviously unacceptable for an entire continent to be marginalized. 25 So a truly universal approach to shared responsibility for global governance and pooling of sovereignties to deal with global problems requires an international consensus on what is legitimately in the general interest of still sovereign States. No matter how compelling the issue or problem, this is not self-evident. The definition of what is in the legitimate public interest within a specific State or nation is the product of a long historical process, cultural attributes and a level of economic development. It is the basic stuff of most political contests in most States. Consensus is not easy to reach domestically. It certainly will be even more difficult in an international system that is concurrently united and divided by globalization and the end of the cold war. The international problem is compounded because the expectation that the post-cold-war international system would be multipolar has proved premature. A multipolar world is still more a matter of potential rather than a current reality. This has engendered discomfort. The war in Kosovo focused such feelings. It threw into brutal relief a trend that has been under way for some time: that the absolute sovereignty of States has to be qualified to require compliance with generally accepted standards of conduct and respect for human rights. This is not all that novel a notion. The traditional approach of non-interference in domestic affairs was never as absolute in practice as in theory. The doctrine of humanitarian intervention dates from the nineteenth century, when the powerful claimed the right to intervene in the affairs of the weak. The war in Kosovo resonated with such historical memories, thus adding to the discomfort. It is a fact that sovereignty now coexists uneasily with a different current of international law concerned with the rights of individuals. These trends have not yet been reconciled. But both trends are facts that cannot be wished away. In any case, their logical compatibility is not the real issue. Notwithstanding Kosovo, it does not appear that the majority of States have much to fear if they treat their citizens well. There are many countries that treat their citizens badly without any suggestion of any sanction harsher than moral disapproval. Concern for human rights has always been selective. The more critical issue is related but different. The loss of territorial reference points engendered by globalization's mismatch between economic and political geographies and the loss of strategic meaning after the end of the cold war have made most international reactions ad hoc. We lurch from crisis to crisis, with no clear sense of direction or consistency. Why Kosovo or East Timor and not Africa? Are the rights of humans everywhere not universal? How to choose when to intervene among the all-too-many conflicts? In his statement to the General Assembly this year, the Secretary-General has posed several thoughtful challenges for us: “Nothing in the Charter precludes a recognition that there are rights beyond borders.” What the Charter does say is that armed force shall not be used, save in the common interest. The Secretary-General then asked, what is the common interest? Who shall define it? Who will defend it? Under whose authority? With what means of intervention? I agree with the Secretary-General that these questions will need to be answered and criteria established. Rules and objective criteria for such interventions are urgently needed. Failure to do so will breed uncertainty and instability. If a new balance has to be struck between sovereignty and other values, it should be struck knowingly and with our eyes open. The alternative is to be led, one step at a time, with the best of intentions, by ad hoc solutions. This will be a major challenge for the international community if the United Nations is to remain relevant in the coming century. This is because we can expect to face many more situations which will pose the dilemma of reconciling State sovereignty with international intervention to redress violations of human rights. We are all familiar with the pressures of the international media and non-governmental actors. These are realities but provide no satisfactory answers. It is not politically acceptable that questions of international peace and stability should be decided on an ad hoc basis. It is even less acceptable that consensus on the need for more peaceful modes of international cooperation should reflect the preoccupations of a few. What we need is to replicate on a global scale those conditions that have made the pluralistic societies in advanced economies still capable of collective action. No Government anywhere can rule by coercion alone or lead legitimately merely because it wields supreme power. Resort to coercion or naked power is more often than not taken to be a symptom of failure of government and not its defining feature. 26 What is required, therefore, on the international stage is what has already been accepted domestically — indeed, insisted upon in the name of democracy: a modest acceptance of the reality of diversity and a nuanced appreciation of the difference between friends, friendly critics and honest disagreements. Persuading those already disoriented by globalization and rapid technological changes requires patient and skilful diplomacy in the artful balance of competing interests. Despite the handicaps under which it laboured, and for all its imperfections, the United Nations has played a critical role in some of the great world issues of the first four decades of its existence. It eased the pangs of decolonization. It provided a cathartic theatre to vent the most dangerous passions of the cold war. It provided the means for the super-Powers to back down from unwanted confrontations without grievous political costs to either. From time to time, it scored notable successes in peacekeeping operations around the world. At the same time, the United Nations, through its specialized agencies, continues to play a vital developmental role for the majority of its Members. But the United Nations experiences of the last decade have been less happy. The United Nations has played at best only a very marginal role in the great developments of the closing years of the twentieth century that I have tried to describe. It risks becoming increasingly divorced from the very international realities in which it is inescapably embedded. Like all organizations of sovereign States, the United Nations can only provide a mechanism for its Members to use for whatever purpose their agreements or disagreements dictate. But the United Nations cannot be just a tool of the few, a repository for issues that no country is willing or knows how to confront, or a convenient scapegoat. The hard fact is that these are the roles that the United Nations has been forced to play in recent years. It cannot continue on this path without permanent damage. In our century, the trend towards international organization, towards the development of a more predictable pattern of relationships between States and international regimes that transcend individual sovereignties is, I believe, established. There is no going back. Whether we like it or not, the world has become too complex to be dealt with except multilaterally. But this does not mean that any particular international institution will necessarily play an effective role in the organization of international life in the next century. The United Nations cannot assume that it will survive intact, just by clinging on to structures and processes conceived in 1945. The world has changed dramatically since then. It will continue to do so. The United Nations has no choice but to change in tandem. This imperative is clear. What is unclear is how the United Nations should change. That is why I have posed more questions than I have provided answers. The process of discussion must start now. The mechanism is at our disposal. The responsibility to use it is ours. Whether we will engage ourselves in this responsibility quickly enough to make a difference to the United Nations is for us to choose. I do not know how much time we have. I only know that the time left is finite.  Allow me first to extend to our President's distinguished predecessor, His Excellency Didier Opertti, Foreign Minister of Uruguay, President of the fifty-third session of the General Assembly, our gratitude for the excellent manner in which he conducted the work of the previous session. Allow me also to offer to the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga the congratulations and warmest good wishes of the Government and the people of Sri Lanka on their election to membership of the General Assembly of the United Nations. We welcome them and assure them of our unstinted support as they take up their places in the Assembly of nations. Our President's well-deserved election to the chair of this historic final session of the General Assembly of the United Nations for the twentieth century gives us great pleasure. Many of us, Foreign Ministers, have known him well over the years. We have worked with him, and we have greatly admired the energy and dedication that he has brought to the performance of his duties as the Permanent Representative of his country. The developing countries in particular have cause to remember with gratitude the role he has played in the deliberations of the Non-Aligned Movement and the G-77. He brings to his office wide experience of the systems and practices of the United Nations. He also brings to his office a high degree of sensitivity to the important issues of the day. I noticed with keen interest that in his opening statement to the Assembly the President referred in considerable detail to the problem of child soldiers. This reference was particularly heartening to me as I had, on the basis of the Graca Machel report, first brought the issue of child soldiers to the attention of the Assembly in the course of my address in 1997. In Sri Lanka a rebel group has for several years been conscripting children, even as young as 10, for battle. Even worse, it has been making children, girls and boys, into suicide bombers, thus creating a horrible new phenomenon of depravity and cruelty that the world has never seen before. If the conscience of the world is not outraged by the tragic fate of these children in my country, then nothing will move us to action in defence of the young and the helpless anywhere. In his opening address to the General Assembly, the President referred to the boast of the “soulless recruiters” that children “are numerous and readily available, more malleable and impressionable, learn quickly, are small and agile, and quite simply require less food and supplies than adults”. He described their fate as “horrendous” and said that in his view it “demands that the United Nations show renewed commitment and redouble its efforts as the repository of humanity's conscience and social justice in the world.” (A/54/PV.1) The President referred to the work being done by inter- governmental and non-governmental organizations to save children, and exhorted them to “continue to blame and shame Governments for not doing enough to protect our children's lives and their future.” (ibid) But in some countries Governments are completely blameless. In Sri Lanka no Government, either before independence 50 years ago or after, has ever recruited children under 18 years of age into the armed forces. In my country it is only the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) that resorts to this abominable practice. These rebel groups are beyond the pale of the law. They acknowledge no international conventions. They are not answerable to any international body. And yet they must be brought to book. Some of them, the LTTE included, operate with impunity in certain countries, wearing the innocent garb of charitable, religious or social organizations. They collect money for ostensibly anodyne purposes. But in fact the money goes to buy weapons for war. And, in truth, host Governments which provide shelter to these organizations under the umbrella of liberal laws of asylum and immigration know, or could easily find out, that those moneys are going to fuel the very war into which young children are being dragooned. These Governments adopt as their explanation for inaction the impeccable excuse that they do not have laws under which fund-raising for terrorist purposes can be punished. This is true, but it will soon cease to be true when the convention for the suppression of the financing of terrorism is adopted — we hope and pray — at this fifty- fourth session of the General Assembly, requiring all signatory States to enact domestic legislation in keeping with the provisions of the convention. 25 The Secretary-General in his report (S/1999/957) to the Security Council on the protection of civilians in armed conflict has recommended that the Security Council urge Member States to support the proposal to raise the minimum age for recruitment and participation in hostilities to 18, and demand that non-State actors involved in conflict not use children below the age of 18 in hostilities, or face the imposition of targeted sanctions if they do not comply. One of the most effective sanctions would be the proscription of such organizations in countries where they presently collect money without let or hindrance, or their being named terrorist organizations, as by the United States of America, for instance, and the consequent illegalization of their activities. Since 1997 there has been considerable progress on the question of child soldiers. The issue is now on centre stage. Regional conferences have been held, and a world conference is to be held next year. The office of the Special Representative of the Secretary General for Children and Armed Conflict is operational. A growing number of countries refer to this issue in the General Assembly and at other forums. Most recently the Foreign Ministers of the Nordic Countries roundly condemned the practice and pledged their support for its eradication. The Security Council has unanimously adopted its first-ever resolution on the plight of children. The first decade of the next millennium has been designated the International Decade for a Culture of Peace and Non-violence for the Children of the World. And the President stated that he would make it his business to add his “voice and devotion to” the “laudable efforts to make the twenty-first century one of love and security for every child in the world.” (ibid) In Sri Lanka we have decided to set up a rehabilitation centre for the children who desert the rebel army. The task of restoring them to health and normalcy is a daunting one. It is a task for which we can certainly use all the help we can get from those who have experience in that field. My plea to the General Assembly today, two years after I first brought up the question of child soldiers, is that we must proceed with the utmost dispatch to rescue these children from their fate. They are already scarred; if we do not act quickly they will be scarred beyond redemption. We leave the twentieth century with many spectacular achievements behind us. But let us make no mistake — we move into the twenty-first century carrying with us old, intractable problems that have been with us since the dawn of time. As the present century draws to a close, new problems of unparalleled menace and danger have emerged. They will undoubtedly occupy our attention well into the next century. Poverty, illiteracy, ill-health, hunger, unemployment, uncontrolled urbanization, the growth of mega cities — these are old problems which deeply affect over half of humanity. We have not addressed these problems with sufficient vigour over the past decades. While the United Nations systems were set up to tackle these problems, the capacity of the system to deliver results has been grossly inadequate. The challenge of fighting human poverty must necessarily continue to have the highest priority. The poor continue to become poorer, remaining deprived of the basic necessities of life. This is morally outrageous in an era of abundance and conspicuous consumption. Poverty degrades humanity and is a threat to the most basic of all human rights. The onus is on us to unite, to wage a moral war, to eliminate the scourge of poverty from our midst. Sri Lanka is of the view that any development agenda of the future must contain a social dimension and assure protection to the most vulnerable elements of our society. It is in this regard that the international community must move beyond the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative. By revising the criteria of classification, we would expand the number of countries that could be helped towards achieving meaningful reduction in both the stock of debt and its servicing. Debt relief and official development assistance, which has been dwindling in recent years, should be restored to its former levels, void of conditionality, at least for the least developed countries. A positive step would be the cancellation of their foreign debt. This would help release their very limited resources for social and poverty alleviation programmes. They must be urgently put on the path to sustainable development, if they are to survive. Though relieving these countries of a major portion of their debt burden is a commendable step, it is equally important to ensure that they do not relapse into the poverty trap. The time has come for the countries of the South to formulate an effective and implementable economic agenda. The recommendations of the Non-Aligned Movement ad hoc panel of economists are of primary importance in organizing the substantive work of the 26 agenda for the South. They include the need for the elaboration and regular updating of the developing countries' agenda; development of a networking system between countries of the South, involving specialists and researchers in the various fields of importance; an economic coordination scheme to help identify and analyse aspects of international economic and trade-related issues; and the assembling and launching of expert groups, which could mobilize those national and inter-South institutions, like the South Centre in Geneva. The South Centre could be a possible coordinating mechanism, which could facilitate the implementation of the South agenda. With the increased marginalization of developing countries in matters of international finance and trade, it is imperative that we urgently put in place a coordinating mechanism to implement the recommendations made by the ad hoc panel of economists. The general thrust of globalization and liberalization of the international economy has now become irreversible. The growing linkages between countries, the opening up of markets, the spread of investments, the impact of technology on standardizing products, the shrinking of distances and the speed of modern communications, offer new windows of opportunity for developing countries, especially if their positive aspects are seized upon and their pitfalls avoided. The task facing us in the developing world today is one of adapting this twin process to conform to our own specific requirements and priorities. This, in our view, would be the primary objective of an economic agenda of the South in the evolving global economy of the future. Although there have been significant developments in the world economy under the influence of the doctrine of globalization and liberalization, it is imperative to recognize its limitations and drawbacks where developing countries are concerned. We need to grapple with the reality and shake off any feelings of complacency. It is now increasingly evident that the benefits of globalization have by and large bypassed much of the developing world, despite strict adherence to the tenets of the structural adjustment policies. The poorest among us — spanning the continents of Africa, Central America and Asia — have experienced increasing marginalization in the world economy. Surveying the South, we find it evident that globalization and liberalization have, paradoxically, increased the economic gap between rich and poor countries. This is the conclusion reached in the tenth United Nations Development Programme Human Development Report. Domestic liberalization measures undertaken by many of the developing countries have also contributed towards a widening of the gap between the rich and the poor. A number of countries have recorded some acceleration of economic growth in the wake of liberalization and deregulation. But they have also witnessed a shift in income distribution in favour of those in the upper income groups. Domestic policy reforms undertaken by a large number of developing counties in the direction of liberalization and deregulation have not secured for them a place on the “Globalization Express”. The globalization and liberalization process is unfolding in a manner which gives developing countries little voice in shaping the policy framework that underpins this procedure. The ad hoc panel of economists under the aegis of the Non-Aligned Movement, which was set up on a proposal made by Sri Lanka, has concluded that there is very little opportunity for developing countries to be represented at discussions and in the councils under which various aspects of the globalization process are assessed, monitored and tailored. Initial optimism on globalization and liberalization is being replaced by anxiety and concern. The emergent economies in Asia are in crisis, experiencing sharp downward pressures on their currencies and capital markets and experiencing stresses, not only on their economic structures, but also on their social fabric and political processes. Fears of widespread international repercussions have borne fruit, and the impact of contagion is all too evident. A bitter lesson that has become all too obvious is the vulnerability of economies to uncontrolled financial flows of various kinds, particularly those of a speculative nature. The globalization and liberalization environment contains no safeguards to control and regulate destabilizing forces in a situation in which rapid movements of vast amounts of capital across national borders is a daily reality. The response of the multilateral financial institutions and the major Powers to the East Asian crisis has been ad hoc and ex post facto, but the need in the first place was for preventive mechanisms. In this milieu, Sri Lanka's response has been to maintain as best it could a steady level of economic growth, despite an unfavourable external economic environment. Our capital account transactions have only partially been liberalized. In our view, foreign direct investment should be of a medium or long-term nature in 27 order to discourage excessive outflow of short-term capital during a financial crisis. It is now virtually established wisdom that the least developed countries have been increasingly marginalized in the globalization and liberalization process. A restructuring of the global financial architecture must include special protection for these most vulnerable segments of our global society. Since a crisis in any one part of the global structure has the power to cause havoc in the rest of the world economy, we must look beyond national solutions to global ones, for both are now irrevocably interlinked. Sri Lanka, as chair of the Group of 24, has taken a special interest in building a consensus among developing countries on the issues of reforming the global financial architecture, and also on the matter of implementation of World Trade Organization agreements. As a member of regional groupings, such as the Group of 15, the Group of 77, the Non-Aligned Movement, the Bangladesh-India- Myanmar-Sri Lanka-Thailand Economic Cooperation (BIMST-EC) and the Indian Ocean Rim Association for Regional Co-operation (IOR-ARC), and also as the current chair of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC), Sri Lanka hopes to play a part in evolving a developing country consensus on this issue and initiating a healthy debate with developed countries, with the hope of establishing a new, dynamic, mutually beneficial international financial architecture. As a part of this effort, we have been active in promoting a South-South dialogue and developing an agenda for the South. In this connection, I wish to commend the observations of the German Foreign Minister in his speech to the Assembly a few days ago. He said: “The United Nations third major task alongside peacekeeping and promoting human rights in the coming century will be to bring about a reconciliation between rich and poor countries ... The development of the poorer and the poorest countries must not be left to the invisible hand of the global market ... The rich countries have a responsibility to help poor countries take advantage of globalization and enable them to have a fairer share of the world economy by assisting them with internal reforms and by opening up markets ... Development cooperation in the broadest sense must become one of the United Nations core tasks to a greater degree than hitherto. Science and technology are geared far too much to the problems of rich countries.” (A/54/PV.8) The phenomenon of nations pooling their resources and strengths, either for collective security or economic development, has been a particular phenomenon of the second half of this century. South Asia has been no exception, the only difference being that the process of regional cooperation commenced relatively late — just 15 years ago — in comparison to other parts of the world. We were also clear from the very outset that our endeavours were targeted solely for economic and social development. The early phase of regional cooperation in South Asia required the building of the necessary institutional capacities of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC). Once these capacities were in place, we began during the last decade to work on the core issues of economic and commercial cooperation. We have made some progress in tariff liberalization in South Asia under the SAARC Preferential Trading Arrangement. This progress has given us the confidence to contemplate the more ambitious task of establishing a regional free-trade area. At the SAARC Summit in Colombo hosted by Sri Lanka last year, a decision was taken, and thereafter implemented, to begin drafting the legal treaty for a free-trade regime. The Colombo Summit also manifested our determination as a region to equip ourselves to maximize the opportunities afforded by the process of globalization. Our Commerce Ministers have been meeting regularly to prepare for the World Trade Organization (WTO) Ministerial Meeting in Seattle. We will be spelling out in Seattle our views on the achievements so far of the multilateral trading system that has now been put in place and the course corrections we believe are required. We have also networked our central banks and finance Ministries since the Colombo Summit, to strengthen our capacities to anticipate and cope with developments in the international financial system. The economic focus of our regional cooperation has not made us unmindful of our other primary objective, namely of social advancement for our region. The challenges our region faces are many. They relate to education, the empowerment of women, health and population issues, and so on. We are trying to evolve a link between regional goals and national programmes in the social sector through a depoliticized common vision. To this end we have, again after the Colombo Summit, commenced work on a Social Charter for South Asia. 28 The gains we have made in regional cooperation in South Asia are certainly not the material of which sensational headlines are made. In fact, they may even have gone unnoticed in some quarters. Yet we in South Asia know that our achievements are incremental, durable and long-lasting. Whatever may be the burdens imposed by history on our region, our common aspiration for the development and welfare of our peoples brings the Governments of South Asia together in collective endeavour. Our organization has an inherent strength and resilience that has enabled it to weather serious crises in relations between some of our members. It has emerged stronger after each such test of its capacity for collective action. Among the new problems of unparalleled menace and danger that have emerged towards the close of the present century are heightened terrorist activities in many countries and ever-proliferating criminal activities in the areas of narcotics, human trafficking and arms smuggling. Every time I have spoken from this rostrum, I have argued that terrorism must be tackled collectively if it is to be tackled effectively at all. In earlier years this plea seemed to fall on deaf ears. But a rash of terrorist bombings in the West galvanized the rich and powerful countries into action. Today we have one Convention in place and two others under consideration at this very session. I am content this year merely to reiterate my plea that there should be no relaxation in the fight against terrorism. I urge other countries, particularly in the West, to follow the lead of the United States of America in enacting legislation to outlaw terrorist organizations. In the unfolding debate on the stand-off between state sovereignty and the rights of individuals being subjected to massive human-rights violations, we must be careful to see that terrorist organizations do not reap the benefit of misplaced sympathy in situations of civil conflict. Those who resort to terror in pursuit of their political objectives must never be permitted or encouraged to believe that unremitting terror will ultimately bring its reward in recognition and results. On the contrary, it is only the recognition that a campaign of terror will put its exponents beyond the pale of civilized discourse that will persuade terrorists to seek other ways of gaining a hearing. At the close of this century it is relevant to ask of ourselves this question: do moral considerations any longer inspire or motivate our actions, or have we been completely overtaken by pragmatic considerations reflected in our respective national interests, subjectively defined? I would like, in this context, to make an observation. We have all heard the familiar jibe that a diplomat is someone who is paid to lie abroad for his country. Indeed, foreign relations and foreign policy have always had the reputation of being somewhat amoral, the object being to secure some national advantage, with the morality of the end, or of the means used to secure the end, being relatively unimportant. But the consequences of this approach for international relations have been deplorable. The Charter of the United Nations commences with these memorable words: “We the peoples of the United Nations determined to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, which twice in our lifetime has brought untold sorrow to mankind, and “to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small, and “to establish conditions under which respect for the obligations arising from treaties and other sources of international law can be maintained, and “to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom”. One has only to listen to these words to realize that the 54 years that have elapsed since they were first stated have brought serious disappointments. Not only has the world experienced numerous wars, but nations and peoples have experienced many kinds of immoral pressures and intimidation. Social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom have, for many nations, been an ever-receding mirage. It is clear that these noble aspirations need some backing, some stiffening, in their implementation. Some 2,500 years ago a great teacher was born in Asia. He was born a prince. He renounced the world and roamed the forests in search of truth until he received enlightenment. Let me recall that Buddhism was first established in the central plain of the River Ganges, just south of the Himalayas. From that beginning, at one time or another in the course of its history, the message of the Enlightened One spread to large areas of India, Pakistan and Afghanistan, to Sri Lanka, China and Japan, to Indonesia, Korea, Laos and Viet Nam, and to Myanmar and Thailand. I state this not with any sense of triumphalism, but to note that this enormous expansion 29 took place in peace. No battles were fought, no cities besieged and no crusades commenced to further the expansion of Buddhism. And when, in accordance with the Buddha's teaching that all things are impermanent, the tide receded, no battles were fought, no cities besieged and no crusades commenced to stem that tide. For all of us who are concerned with statecraft, this holds a fundamental lesson. I would like to quote in this connection from the great Buddhist Emperor Asoka, who, as the Assembly knows, underwent a radical change of heart through contact with the Dhamma. In his often-quoted thirteenth rock edict at Kalsi, he proclaimed: “And for the following purpose has this rescript on morality been written, namely, in order that the sons and grandsons who may be born to me should not think that a fresh conquest ought to be made; that, if a conquest does please them, they should take pleasure in mercy and light punishments; and that they should regard the conquest by morality as the only true conquest”. Not only the freedom of thought, but also the tolerance allowed by the Buddha is astonishing to the student of the history of religions. Asoka, following this noble example of tolerance and understanding, honoured and supported all other religions in his vast empire. The Buddha was just as clear on politics, war and peace. It is well-known that Buddhism advocates and preaches non-violence and peace as its universal message and does not approve of any kind of violence or destruction of life. According to Buddhism, there is nothing that can be called a “just war”, which is only a false term coined and put into circulation to justify and excuse hatred, cruelty, violence and massacre. Who decides what is just or unjust? The mighty and the victorious are “just” and the weak and the defeated are “unjust”. Buddhism does not accept this position. As the Buddha says: “The victor breeds hatred and the defeated lies down in misery. He who renounces both victory and defeat is happy and peaceful”. The only conquest that brings peace and happiness is self- conquest: “One may conquer millions in battle, but he who conquers himself — only one — is the greatest of the conquerors.” Buddhist philosophy contains much more of relevance to statesmen. In the past decade the observance of human rights has been a source of great concern and debate in international forums. In this connection, I would like to quote the words of a scholar who has examined the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, article by article, from a Buddhist perspective. He said: “The importance of this Declaration as a common standard of achievement for all peoples and all nations is now acknowledged everywhere. From the religious angle, it is possible to state that in this Declaration lie enshrined certain values and norms emphasized by the major religions of the world. Though not directly expressed, the basic principles of the Declaration are supported and reinforced by these religious traditions, and among them the contribution of the Buddhist tradition, to say the least, is quite outstanding”. Today the teachings of the Buddha are studied and practised worldwide, and nowhere more avidly than in the West. It is said that there are over 150 million known adherents of Buddhism in the world today. But if one took into account the vast uncounted numbers of those who practise Buddhism, that figure would be immensely higher. Allow me, therefore, to suggest to this Assembly that as the third millennium of human history opens it would be fitting to recall the immense contribution to the understanding of the human condition that the teachings of the Buddha made 2,500 years ago. I suggest further that it would be appropriate to honour the Buddha by declaring that Wesak, the sacred day for Buddhists the world over, be observed as a special day by the United Nations. Wesak marks the three most important events in the life of the Buddha: his birth, his attainment of enlightenment and his passing away, all occurring on the full-moon day of the month of May. This was the recommendation made by an international Buddhist conference held in Colombo last November and attended by delegates from 26 countries. With the permission of the President, a draft resolution to this effect, sponsored by a number of countries, will be introduced in the General Assembly at its current session. The Government of Sri Lanka commends this draft resolution to the attention of the General Assembly. 30  I am honoured to address the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session as a representative of His Majesty the King of Swaziland. I bring with me from the Kingdom of Swaziland warmest greetings and best wishes to all our fellow members from His Majesty King Mswati III, Her Majesty the Indlovukazi, the Government and the whole Swazi nation. The Kingdom of Swaziland congratulates you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at this session. We are especially proud that a fellow southern African has been elected to this demanding position, and we are confident that your diplomatic skills and experience will help you guide and lead this Assembly towards the successful conclusion of its deliberations. We should also like to commend the skilful leadership of the fifty-third session by your predecessor Mr. Didier Opertti. We are meeting at a time of great challenges for the United Nations. The membership is faced with a number of issues concerning the very shape of our Organization and the scope of operations that we choose to undertake. The Kingdom of Swaziland believes that we are fortunate indeed to have at this time a Secretary-General who commands such universal respect and who possesses the qualities of determination, enthusiasm and leadership that are so necessary as we chart our course for the future. We call on him and on the staff of the United Nations to keep up their good work in the service of all Member States. The Kingdom of Swaziland believes that the Secretary-General and his staff can best be supported by our continuing commitment to meeting our financial obligations in full and on time. We call on all our fellow Members to comply by honouring their obligations so that our Organization can have sufficient resources with which to cope with the widening scope of its operations and to meet the expectations of us all. The Kingdom of Swaziland is delighted to extend a warm welcome to our Organization’s three new Members: the nation States of Tonga, Nauru and Kiribati. Their admission is further confirmation of our respect for the principles of universality and representation, as contained in the founding Charter of the United Nations. But even as we welcome these new Members, the Kingdom of Swaziland is conscious that the principle of universality is not applied equally to others who feel excluded from the activities of our Organization. I refer to the 22 million people of the Republic of China on Taiwan, who believe that they are being denied their right to representation in the United Nations. The Government and the people of the Republic of China on Taiwan have shown their willingness and capacity to contribute actively to global development and peace, through disaster relief and development support to many countries and regions. The Republic of China on Taiwan is clearly a peace-loving nation, and is highly developed in all economic, social and political spheres. It is the view of the Kingdom of Swaziland that international peace and security and equitable development for all mankind, can be achieved only through the inclusion of all the people of the world in the one truly global development Organization. We therefore support the call from an increasing number of Member States for the establishment of a working group by the General Assembly to examine the exceptional international situation relating to the Republic of China on Taiwan and to ensure that the fundamental right of its 22 million people to participate in the work and activities of the United Nations is fully respected. We recognize that, as has been the case in some other nations, the matter of reunification is for the Chinese people themselves. The history of the twentieth century will have further evidence to support the belief that man apparently and surprisingly cannot live peacefully side by side with his neighbour, nor in harmony with nature and his environment. Despite the many remarkable achievements of the last 99 years, notably in the collapse of ideological and political colonialism and in the fields of technology, science and medicine, it will be, in the end, by world wars, environmental degradation and the emergence of global epidemics that this century will be remembered. The Kingdom of Swaziland believes that the promotion of sustainable international peace and security must be the main priority for the United Nations, because it is clear that our collective aim of raising the living standards of our peoples is possible only in conditions of global stability and with nations living in harmony alongside one another. It has long been recognized that the greatest threat to global peace lies in the continuing spread of weapons of mass destruction. Our failure so far as an Organization to have true commitment from all Members to arms control and nuclear disarmament has meant that we enter the next millennium with this threat still overshadowing all matters of international relations. The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty are designed as essential first steps towards a world free from the danger that such weapons pose. We clearly need to find a way to strengthen the non-proliferation regime, and also to prevent the flow of conventional weapons and anti-personnel landmines into zones of conflict. The Kingdom of Swaziland therefore calls upon the Conference on Disarmament to implement the proposal of the Non-Aligned Movement by establishing as its highest priority an ad hoc committee to begin negotiations on a programme for the complete elimination of nuclear weapons, within a time-bound framework. We also urge those States with nuclear weapons to implement faithfully both the letter and spirit of all agreements relating to the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and nuclear disarmament. Whilst the possibilities of global conflict have diminished since the end of the cold-war era, it is a fact that there has been a corresponding increase in the incidence of internal conflicts and cross-border disturbances arising from a variety of causes, including ethnic and religious confrontation. The Kingdom of Swaziland believes that the emphasis of the United Nations in dealing with this increase of internal and cross-border crises should be on the introduction of an effective mechanism of preventive diplomacy to stop incidents from escalating out of control. This has been the focus of regional organizations of which the Kingdom of Swaziland is a member, such as the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA), the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and the Organization of African Unity (OAU). We believe that, while recognizing the overall responsibility of the United Nations towards global peace, the regional organizations must take the lead as the building blocks towards stability and closer cooperation. The past year in international affairs has been a mix of progress in some areas of past conflict and the continuation or emergence of crises in many others. The United Nations has quite correctly become involved in trying to help resolve each of these situations, to a greater or lesser degree, and the Kingdom of Swaziland commends its efforts and those of all who have played a similar role. The Kingdom of Swaziland recognizes the recent progress made by Israelis and Palestinians towards the 2 implementation of the Wye River peace accord. This has been a most encouraging step towards lasting peace in the Middle East region and we applaud the courage and commitment of the leadership of both sides towards achieving this aim. The crisis in the former Yugoslavia earlier this year gave us cause for great concern, especially in the light of the threat of the conflict’s spreading to other Balkan States. We pray that the recent return to relative stability will lead to lasting peace in that troubled region and that the wishes of the people for their future will be the guiding principle in any long-term dispensation. We have viewed with concern the events in East Timor following the referendum on independence and we fully support the decision of the United Nations to accede to the request of the Indonesian Government for the urgent deployment of a peacekeeping force. We appeal to all involved to restore calm to the situation and to respect the wishes of the people of East Timor for their future. We have watched with equal concern the apparent setback in the peace process in Northern Ireland. We support the efforts of the British and Irish Governments to create the right conditions of trust and confidence, in which the people of Northern Ireland can decide their future for themselves. We urge all parties involved to exercise restraint and to rediscover the spirit of compromise and reconciliation that characterized the original Good Friday Agreement. Closer to home, on our own continent of Africa, the past year has given cause for some optimism in a number of areas; but in others, the tale is all too depressingly familiar. We welcome with great relief the signing of the Peace Agreement between the warring factions in Sierra Leone and we appeal to both sides to abide by the terms of the settlement so that their people may benefit from the dividend of peace after so many years of suffering and lack of development. The continuing border dispute between Ethiopia and Eritrea has unsettled all in the Horn of Africa and we applaud the decision of both countries to agree to mediation efforts between them by the United Nations and the OAU. We pray that this sensible move may lead to a peaceful settlement of the crisis. The recent signing of an Agreement by all parties to the conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo has encouraged all of us in the region. We hope that there will be commitment by all signatories to the terms of the ceasefire and that a lasting solution may be found that will allow the Congolese people to develop their great potential in peace. This last success is all the more encouraging for those of us in the SADC region, since it came about through the combined efforts of a number of SADC member States. In a similar vein, heightened tension between two of our members, Angola and Zambia, was able to be defused before the situation could escalate into a crisis. Both of these situations point to the acceptance of responsibility by our member States for resolving regional difficulties ourselves. Of course, this does not preclude our welcome to the willingness of others, such as the OAU, the United Nations and individual countries that wish to be involved, especially in the provision of training and material and financial support. But we firmly believe in the principle that African problems require african solutions and we are determined to come up with the means and mechanisms to abide by it. On the negative side, the continent has seen the continuation of two crises that are having an especially damaging effect on the lives of the people involved and that we believe require the urgent attention of the United Nations. The first concerns the deteriorating situation in Angola, where peace remains as elusive as ever. We call on the leadership of UNITA to respect the terms of the Lusaka Protocol and to recognize the need to use it as the starting point in the search for lasting peace and national healing. We appeal to the international community to continue to support the efforts of SADC and all of us who are involved in the quest for an end to the suffering of the Angolan people. The situation is Somalia, while possessing different characteristics, has the same distressing effect on the people of that unfortunate country. The fact is that the division and lack of any legitimate central authority in their country has deprived Somalis not only of peace and the chance for development, but also of a voice of appeal in regional and international forums. The time has surely come for the United Nations to show real commitment to finding a solution to the Somalia crisis, in the same way that we are expending a 3 great deal of effort and resources in crisis situations in other parts of the world. The Somali people deserve the same concern and respect for their future from the rest of the world as those in countries with perhaps greater global recognition and resources. The complex challenges facing the world today lend greater significance and urgency to the initiatives for reform of our Organization. The Kingdom of Swaziland believes that these reforms are essential if the United Nations is to retain the global credibility and authority that are so necessary in its operations. Recent history has shown clearly that the traditional mechanisms for harmonizing global relations and conflict resolution, in particular, are no longer effective, and the United Nations is in real danger of losing the confidence of its Members in these areas. Our aim must be to transform our Organization into a structure that is truly representative of all our Members and that is transparent and efficient in its operations, while remaining consistent to the purposes and principles of our founding Charter. We believe that the priority should be to achieve balanced representation in the principal organs of the United Nations. The Security Council, as a particular example, requires reform in order to strengthen its legitimacy. Its composition must reflect the plurality and diversity of the membership of the United Nations, with due regard for the profound geopolitical changes in recent history. The Kingdom of Swaziland reaffirms its full support for the African position on reform of the Security Council, namely, two permanent seats for Africa to be shared on a rotational basis, as well as three non-permanent seats, and a re-examination of the exercise of veto power. It is a fact that the majority of Member States concur with this need for reform of the Security Council and that all agree on the urgency attached to the matter. Yet there has been very little progress made so far by the Open-ended Working Group established to address this vital issue. We are concerned at this lack of progress and would urge the Working Group to overcome whatever obstacles remain to a resolution that meets Members’ demands for fairness and urgency. Turning now to the question of the Millennium Assembly, to be convened next year, the Kingdom of Swaziland is encouraged by the emerging consensus among Member States on the need to articulate a vision for the international community in the year 2000. We support the Secretary-General’s theme of the United Nations in the twenty-first century and the proposed sub-topics for the Millennium Assembly. Of these, we believe the closely related sub-topics of peace and security, on the one hand, and development and poverty eradication, on the other, to be of the highest priority in the context of the overall theme. Future global stability depends on the ability of national Governments to increase the momentum for economic development and their capacity to improve the delivery of job creation and essential social services, such as health and education. We believe that poverty eradication can be achieved only through the promotion of an accelerated pace of growth and development in the developing countries. There can be no doubt that, to achieve this aim, we need the support of the rest of the international community, and this support can best be coordinated by the United Nations. One key factor in the achievement of our aim of poverty eradication is the concept of the globalization and liberalization of the global economy. The conclusion of the Uruguay Round, on the one hand, promised to open up enormous trade opportunities in the sale and movement of goods and services, but on the other it threatened the fragile economies of those countries that had not achieved the state of preparation to take full advantage. The continent of Africa, in particular, continues to face a multitude of problems as we struggle to settle into the new world order. Many of us are undertaking painful reforms of existing structures in order to respond to the demands of globalization and liberalization. The implementation of structural adjustment programmes, often on the instructions of the Bretton Woods institutions, is having a severely adverse impact on the social welfare of many African countries, with devastating effects on the quality of life of our people. We can see the result of these effects in many countries, where a decrease in expenditure on social programmes has led to heightened internal tension and instability. Clearly, globalization and liberalization as concepts have much to recommend them. Undoubtedly, they hold 4 the key to an economic future of equal opportunity for all countries. But we are saying that they need to take into account the unequal starting points of each country: that some are better prepared than others to take full advantage of the opportunities they offer and that many of us may well lose any hope of catching up. We are seeing the very sovereignty of countries being eroded by the power of multinational companies. True economic power is being held in fewer and fewer hands, and the developing countries are becoming further marginalized. Social problems increase as people lose jobs and capital and currency values are controlled elsewhere. The developing countries cannot wish away globalization, but we would wish it to adopt a more human face, one that recognizes and makes allowances for the fundamental inequalities between the richer and the poorer nations of the world and makes concessions to allow us the opportunity to take full advantage of its opportunities in due course. For our part in the Kingdom of Swaziland, we are aggressively pursuing political, economic, social and institutional reforms that will have a major impact on all aspects of national life, in accordance with the wishes and expectations of the Swazi people themselves. This year, we launched the national development strategy, a people-driven vision for the long term, providing a planning framework for government action priorities for the next 25 years. The core aim of the strategy is to achieve a sustainable increase in the standard of living of all Swazis, with particular emphasis on eliminating poverty from our society. Our priority is to create the conditions for a vibrant economy and to increase our capacity to provide our people with a high level of human development. This long-term blueprint has been used as the basis for two short- and medium-term programmes of action by the Government that are linked to timetables and are fully accountable for results. The economic and social reform agenda is a performance management tool that identifies priority actions and keeps government performance under close, public scrutiny and the public sector management programme designed to improve service delivery and cost-effectiveness in the public sector. We believe that these initiatives, with the wishes of the people at their heart, will provide us with the right conditions in which to prosper and to achieve our human development objectives. We have very much appreciated the support of the United Nations in formulating the strategy. The national development strategy should, from now on, form the priority target for all development support from United Nations agencies. We would wish the same from the international development finance institutions. We share the concern of many fellow Member States in the developing world that too often these institutions’ target for support is not in tune with the wishes of the country involved and that the process of project design and approval is painfully slow. We look forward to working with the United Nations Development Programme and the international finance institutions to design projects that coincide with the wishes of our own people, and within a time-frame that meets our expectations of speedy implementation. In 1996, the Kingdom of Swaziland embarked on a review of its Constitution with the establishment of a commission that was tasked with collecting the views of all Swazis on all aspects of the present Constitution. We have kept the General Assembly fully informed on the progress of this commission each year, and I am delighted to report that the people’s recommendations on the Constitution will be presented to the nation at the end of this year. The process will then move forward to the drafting of these recommendations into a formal document that will be confirmed by the people themselves, before final ratification. Throughout the process of constitutional review, we have been guided by the principle of involving all Swazis in the drafting of what will be the Kingdom’s defining document. Consultation with our people on all important matters is a principle that we have followed throughout our history, and is one that has helped us to maintain the peace and stability with which we have always been blessed. I have spoken at length about the efforts we in the Kingdom of Swaziland are making to improve the lives of our people. And yet, all our plans and all our good intentions are meaningless in the face of the danger that threatens to overwhelm our nation. I am referring, of course, to the HIV/AIDS crisis, which is already having a severe impact on the lives of many Swazi families and which undermines all our hopes for a future of prosperity and security for all our people. We are facing up to the fact that the Kingdom of Swaziland has one of the highest rates of HIV infection in the world, and our hospitals and clinics are stretched to the limit of capacity as a result. We are making every effort to halt the spread of the 5 deadly disease. But it is an uphill struggle and involves us in bringing about a wholesale change in attitude and moral behaviour. Our chief concern is to promote awareness of the danger and of the preventive measures available. Our resources are limited, and we need the continuing support of the international community in our efforts to reverse the downward trend. This appeal was repeatedly made at the recent Eleventh International Conference on AIDS and STDs in Africa held in Lusaka. We therefore join other Member States in a similar predicament in appealing to the United Nations to coordinate an international response to the crisis. The very future of our nation, and that of many others, depends on those with the technical and financial resources joining forces with us to stem the deadly tide. In conclusion, I should like to take this opportunity to express the deep gratitude of Their Majesties, the Government and the whole Swazi nation, to the United Nations Development Programme and all its sister agencies, for the many programmes of assistance undertaken in the Kingdom of Swaziland since our independence. We believe that the United Nations, as the one truly global development Organization, remains the only hope for overcoming the many complex challenges facing the world today. Despite the setbacks and obstacles to achieving our collective aims, there can be no doubt that the world would be a more troubled place without the combined efforts of all of us here. The Kingdom of Swaziland therefore takes great pride in reaffirming its commitment to the principles and ideals contained in the United Nations Charter, and we ask Almighty God to watch over and guide us in the challenging times ahead for our Organization.   I am pleased to join those who spoke before me in expressing my warmest congratulations to the President on his election to lead this fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. This choice reflects the great esteem in which the international community holds his country, Namibia, as well as being a tribute to his past as a freedom fighter and to his qualities as a statesman. I assure him of the wholehearted support of my delegation as he carries out his duties. I would also like to extend my most sincere congratulations to President Gurirab’s predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Didier Opertti, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Uruguay, for the skill with which he conducted the work of the fifty-third session of the Assembly. To Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, I would like to express the utmost appreciation of the Government of Togo for the perspicacity and tenacity he has shown in seeking solutions to the many problems facing the Organization. Finally, I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to warmly congratulate the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga on their admission into this great family, the United Nations. We have met once again this year to take stock of actions carried out in pursuit of our common objectives and to coordinate our views on what actions to take in order to address today’s challenges. Given the current state of the world, we must acknowledge that, despite the significant progress that has been made, the world is still marked, unfortunately, by instability, raging wars and tensions that are most often due to widespread poverty and to the uneven distribution of resources, as well as to the legitimate aspiration of peoples for greater freedom, justice and well-being. Indeed, at a time when mankind is getting ready to embark on the third millennium, our world offers one of the bleakest pictures in its history from an economic and social point of view. All kinds of problems linked to underdevelopment, poverty and inequalities between developed and disadvantaged countries — problems long denounced in this and other forums — have worsened in recent years as a result of the globalization of the economy. Although developed countries have benefited from this phenomenon, especially in the areas of trade and investment, developing countries are suffering the negative impact of globalization on their economies, which have already been rendered fragile by their unbearable debt burden, the plummeting of prices for raw materials and the steady decline in official development assistance. As regards the external-debt problem in particular, we can never stress enough how the accumulation of this debt hampers development efforts. The awareness of the extent of this problem and of its impact on development is such that the most industrialized countries and the Bretton Woods institutions and those of the United Nations system now acknowledge that most of the developing countries’ debt can never be repaid. They also acknowledge quite openly that the debt burden is the major obstacle to the development of poor countries and that the mechanisms that have been established to resolve the debt crisis have not been very effective. Within this context we can only welcome the commitment of the G-8 summit, held last June in Cologne, to cancel a portion of the debt of world’s poorest countries. My delegation encourages the international community to continue to take bold steps aimed at resolving the debt problem in an effective and lasting manner. These steps might include the cancellation of all of the bilateral debt of the poorest countries, a significant reduction of the debt burden of middle-income and low-income countries, and increasing the flexibility 20 of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative so as to make its benefits more generally available. However, we should point out that the implementation of such measures should not be carried out to the detriment of official development assistance, which, unfortunately, continues to decline. As regards trade, it is generally acknowledged that the expansion of international trade is a true engine for growth and development. We would like to see the international community take appropriate measures to integrate developing countries into the international-trade regime, through increasing access for their exports to the markets of developed countries, by supporting the diversification and strengthening of developing countries’ production capacities, and by improving terms of trade. We sincerely hope that the forthcoming negotiations at the World Trade Organization, the tenth United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and between the European Union and the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries will take into account the interests of the weakest partners. In recent years, many initiatives have been taken on the bilateral and multilateral levels to try to address the challenges faced by the African continent. In this respect, I would cite the United States initiative for a Partnership for Economic Growth and Opportunity in Africa and the Tokyo International Conferences on African Development. While this may be satisfying, there is still reason, in the name of efficiency, to call for some degree of coordination between these initiatives and those of the United Nations system. Efforts to promote development and eradicate poverty in Africa cannot be dissociated from our daily struggle to safeguard peace and security. For our countries again this year, preserving and consolidating a climate of peace and stability have been the major imperative, given the many real dangers. Thus, the Government of Togo, traditionally inclined to search for peace and stability, has spared no effort to try to reconcile points of view whenever discord arises, convinced that dialogue and cooperation should be emphasized in the settlement of disputes and that any conflict that may arise in any country of a subregion represents a tragedy for the entire subregion, and perhaps Africa as a whole. Inspired by the spirit of subregional solidarity that, under the President of our Republic, Mr. Gnassingbé Eyadéma, current Chairman of the Authority of Heads of State and Government of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), we have carried out actions and taken appropriate initiatives to find negotiated solutions to the crisis in Guinea-Bissau, the conflict in Sierra Leone and the border dispute between Guinea and Liberia. Following the crisis that erupted in Guinea-Bissau in June 1998, the efforts of the ECOWAS and the Community of Portuguese-Speaking Countries led to the signing of a ceasefire and a peace Agreement in November 1998. The subsequent deployment of an ECOWAS Monitoring Group contingent with woefully inadequate means did not allow us effectively to implement the provisions of the Abuja Agreement and the Lomé Protocol, nor did it entirely allay tensions. Despite the brutal upheaval of the peace process on 7 May 1999, the Security Council ratified the Secretary-General’s proposal to maintain the United Nations office in Guinea- Bissau with a new mandate. We hope that the Organization and the international community will continue to provide the necessary assistance to the people of Guinea-Bissau, who so desperately need it. We welcome the commitments undertaken that will ensure respect for the elections of November 1997. We expect that tranquility and security will return to Guinea-Bissau. In Sierra Leone, thanks to the initiative and determination of the ECOWAS heads of State and to the support of the international community, the Government of Sierra Leone and the Revolutionary United Front signed, in our capital city of Lomé on 7 July 1999, a Peace Agreement whose implementation will, we hope, allow the people of Sierra Leone to embark decisively on the path of national reconciliation, stability and reconstruction. Thus, as I pointed out yesterday before the Security Council in the context of the open debate on the situation in Africa, the restoration is closely linked to the implementation of the Lomé Peace Agreement. That is why I am pleased by the Secretary-General’s proposal in his latest report on Sierra Leone to create a United Nations force of 6,000 in that country, in keeping with this Agreement. I am convinced that the Security Council, which has already begun to consider the matter, will authorize as soon as possible the deployment of that force, which, in compliance with its mandate, will help 21 the Government of Sierra Leone to implement the stalled disarmament, demobilization and reintegration programme. We also wish particularly to thank the Government of the United Kingdom, which chairs the international contact group on Sierra Leone; the international organizations and humanitarian agencies; and all those who have variously contributed to restoring peace in that country. I recall the fine spirit of solidarity that was manifest during the negotiations on the Lomé Peace Agreement, which allowed the representatives of the United States of America, the United Kingdom, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and the Secretary-General of the Organization of African Unity, as well as the permanent representatives of the United Nations and the Secretary-General’s Special Representative in Sierra Leone to pool their efforts around the seven-member ECOWAS contact group, which worked tirelessly day and night for success in Sierra Leone. That is why we feel that the decision to embark as soon as possible on the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration programme with the dispatch of 6,000 United Nations blue helmets would put an end to this war. As for Liberia, the Ad Hoc Committee of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of ECOWAS met on 26 August 1999 in Lomé to study the destabilization of that brotherly country. My delegation makes an urgent appeal to the parties involved to respect the relevant provisions of the ECOWAS Treaty and the non-aggression protocol signed in Lagos on 22 April 1998 in order to allow the immediate restoration of a climate of peace, security and confidence in the subregion. In this respect, we were pleased by the recent signing in Abuja, on 16 September, of the understanding between the heads of State of Guinea and Liberia during the ECOWAS mini-summit, held in the capital of Nigeria. We also appeal to the international community to provide the necessary support to countries of the subregion that have borne the burden of refugees, Guinea-Bissau in particular, so that they may address that problem. Elsewhere, the perpetuation of armed conflicts, with their humanitarian consequences of all kinds, deeply concerns my delegation. In this respect, we welcome the signing in Lusaka on 12 July of the Ceasefire Agreement between the main parties to the conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and ardently call for a stronger commitment of the Security Council to assist the Southern African Development Community countries. In Angola, we hope that the joint efforts of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity will allow the people of that country to achieve reconciliation and will encourage the restoration of peace and stability in that country. In any case, Togo is determined to apply the decisions of our United Nations with respect to the steps taken against the belligerent parties in Angola. As to the border dispute between Ethiopia and Eritrea, my delegation sincerely hopes that these two brotherly countries will truly embark on the path towards a peaceful solution of their dispute. It is comforting to note that real progress has been made with regard to the crisis stemming from the Lockerbie affair after many years of procrastination which penalized the fraternal people of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. The Government of Togo believes that in placing the two Lockerbie bombing suspects at the disposal of the United Nations, Libya has met its obligations under Security Council resolutions and that the Security Council must immediately lift the sanctions imposed on that country. This will contribute to ending the suffering of our Libyan brothers, which has lasted too long. With regard to the Middle East, we reaffirm our strong conviction that an era of lasting peace, stability and security for all can come about only through the continuation of the peace process and the most resolute political will on all sides, based on Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978) and the principle of “land for peace”. In this context, the Government of Togo welcomes developments in that region, through steps recently taken by President Yasser Arafat and Prime Minister Ehud Barak. We urge the parties concerned to continue to work tirelessly to find ways and means to allow the harmonious continuation of the peace process. One of the most important events that will have most deeply marked this fading century is undeniably the end of the cold war. Among other things, it resulted in averting the spectre of a nuclear holocaust; at least, we hope so. Deeply attached to the principle of general and complete disarmament under effective international control, Togo is still concerned about nuclear disarmament and the elimination of other weapons of mass destruction. This is why we appeal for continued efforts to put an end to the proliferation of nuclear arms and the threats they entail. 22 The same applies to proliferation of and illicit trafficking in light weapons and small arms in Africa. My country welcomes United Nations initiatives to curtail and contain this phenomenon, and hopes that the international conference decided upon by the General Assembly in resolution 53/77 E of 4 December 1998, and scheduled to take place in Geneva in 2001, will make it possible to find effective solutions to this problem. I would also like to stress the role played in this context by the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa, which organized in Lomé, from 2 to 4 August 1999, a workshop on illicit trafficking in light weapons. I am pleased to take this opportunity to pay a well deserved tribute to the Secretary-General of our Organization, who has just provided this Centre with a Director, whose main task it is to revitalize its activities and mobilize the necessary funds to finance its operational expenses. Because of its important role in implementing the Programme for Coordination and Assistance for Security and Development, as well as in the destruction of arms collected during the peace process in Liberia, we feel that support for its work is urgently needed. In this connection, we thank the Italian, Japanese, Norwegian and Swedish Governments for their generous voluntary contributions and reiterate our appeal to the international community to provide financial and logistical support. I turn to the functioning of our Organization. Here I stress the fundamental role of the Security Council in maintaining international peace and security. My delegation reaffirms its support for all reforms to strengthen the effectiveness of the Council and provide representation for Africa, in the form of a permanent Member, in keeping with the will of the heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity. Throughout its long history, my country has never strayed from the purposes of our Organization. We have often expressed and shown our dedication to the ideals of peace and justice, as well as the principles of democracy and the protection of human rights. Going beyond the social and political crises that we have known in recent years, the people of Togo are resolutely engaged in a new process of national understanding and harmony, something I wish to emphasize. On 19 July 1999, on the initiative of General Eyadema, President of the Republic, an internal dialogue bringing together all of the political actors of the country was organized following preliminary meetings held at Paris and Lomé between March and June 1999. The opportunity was given to representatives of the presidential leadership and of the Togolese opposition to freely express themselves on the major issues of political life in our country, under the arbitration of international facilitators. In this regard, I would like to renew our deepest gratitude to France, the Federal Republic of Germany, the European Union and the International Organization of La Francophonie for the important role they played during these negotiations, which led to the signing of a framework agreement on 29 July 1999. For the implementation of the agreement, the Government has shown itself ready to make all necessary concessions that are in the national interest, it being understood that national reconciliation is vital to the continuation of the process of democratization and the consolidation of the rule of law in Togo, as elsewhere. We are sure that reason and the national interest will prevail, so that the hopes of the people of Togo and the international community are not disappointed. The Government regards the signing of the agreement as an important step in our resolute march towards building a democratic society and bringing about development. We therefore solemnly appeal to the international community to resume effective cooperation with Togo, in order to allow its population to enjoy the fruits of democratization. Poverty is the enemy of democracy. The complexity of the issues and the many challenges to be taken up at the dawn of the third millennium call for a strengthening of international cooperation and, above all, greater solidarity with Africa. No nation, no country, whatever its resources and abilities, can tackle these challenges alone. Cooperation between the peoples of the United Nations is vital to us. We must therefore act together, consolidating our solidarity within the framework of our Organization, which, after half a century of existence, has proved that it is an irreplaceable tool at the service of mankind. Togo, which once again proclaims its faith in the United Nations, would encourage it to relentlessly pursue in the century to come the achievement of its Charter purposes. May this session strengthen us in our common struggle to consolidate peace, justice, freedom and progress in the world and foster more understanding between nations. Togo is ready to contribute to this effort.On behalf of my Government and on my own behalf, I wish to join previous speakers in congratulating you, Sir, most sincerely on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. Your election to this high office is a matter of honour to all Africans and to the United Nations family, for you represent a nation whose plight remained on the agenda of this Organization for many years. The attainment of the independence of Namibia, the last stronghold of colonialism in the African continent, and the subsequent political, economic and social developments that have occurred in the last few years, have indeed paved the way for the consolidation of the process of political integration of southern Africa. We wish you well in your new responsibilities, and are confident that this body will be well served in the months ahead. We shall cooperate with you in every way we can. A well-deserved tribute is also due to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Didier Opertti of Uruguay, for the exemplary manner in which he spearheaded the proceedings of the Organization during the last session. I would also like to express my high regard to the Secretary-General for his continued commitment to international peace and security and for his leadership in dealing with an ever-increasing array of challenges worldwide. I wish to encourage him to continue on this positive path. My Government welcomes the recent admission to the membership of the United Nations of the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. We are certain that the new Members will further enhance the universal nature of our Organization. I have come to the General Assembly first as a messenger of a people — the Mozambican people — who have embarked on a long process of political, economic and social stabilization, following years of instability. The process of consolidating Mozambique’s young, multiparty democracy is making steady progress. Step by step, our country is returning to normalcy, though we are conscious of the hurdles still ahead. We are currently preparing for the second multiparty presidential and parliamentary elections, to be held on 3 and 4 December 1999. Periodic genuine elections constitute an important political exercise, which my Government and I are committed to pursuing vigorously with a view to ensuring lasting peace and stability in Mozambique. In the past five years of pluralistic democracy we have registered important advances in the consolidation of nation-building through collective efforts involving all layers of society. Taking advantage of its diversity and vitality, our Parliament has held fruitful discussion, which resulted in the adoption of new laws that are contributing positively to the revitalization of political, economic and social institutions as well as to the consolidation of peace and democracy. More important, this forum has contributed to the creation among parliamentarians of a new vision and understanding of the facts about our country and a vision of a united nation pursuing peace, progress and prosperity for all Mozambicans, thus consolidating national reconciliation. The period under review has equally witnessed significant economic and social progress. We are proud that this has been highlighted and commended by well-advised outside observers and by many of the most respected organizations and institutions as a good example of commitment to implement economic reforms. The Mozambican economy has grown at encouraging rates, resulting in the allocation of an increased share of the national budget to the social sectors. The whole network of schools and health facilities destroyed during the years of destabilization has been rebuilt, and most roads and bridges are under rehabilitation. My Government has succeeded in creating a more enabling environment for private investment by redefining its role as facilitator. We have identified and established special incentive schemes in various areas with higher potential for development. These incentives are aimed at bringing new investments to a number of areas in order to develop internationally competitive economic zones, create employment opportunities and promote sustainable economic growth. They are also intended to bring about balanced development of the whole country, bearing in mind that some areas were neglected during colonial times. The streamlining of investment procedures, coupled with political stability, has contributed to the attraction of large investments such as the Maputo Development Corridor project. The concept of development corridors is an initiative regarded as the cornerstone of the regional integration strategy involving the countries of the Southern African Development Community (SADC). Other transfrontier and national programmes in partnership with other countries of the region play a major role in this process. These include strategic projects such as the $1.3-billion Mozal aluminium smelter plant to be completed within one year and the projected $2-billion Maputo iron and steel plant; both are part of the Maputo Development Corridor project. The construction of another $600-million iron and steel plant and the construction of a new port in Savane are envisaged as part of the Beira Corridor. Gas projects in the southern and central regions of Mozambique, as well as sugar plants and tourism, are other undertakings of great importance being developed in Mozambique with the participation of other SADC countries. The ambitious plan for the development of integrated programmes and projects in the Zambezi river basin, an extensive and potentially rich part of Mozambique, include the construction of a big hydroelectric dam at M’panda M’kua. The Zambezi valley covers more than 200,000 square kilometres, nearly one third of our national territory, and is endowed with a variety of resources of strategic importance, which we intend to develop in order to bring about sustainable development for our country and for the SADC region. The Cabora Bassa dam is already supplying electricity to Zimbabwe and to South Africa. Mozambique will thus be in a position to use its geostrategic location to make a greater contribution towards the integrated development of the southern African region; this is one of the building blocks of continental integration. We believe that cooperative interaction involving various segments of society, including the private sector, is the key to the promotion of sustainable development through a smart partnership in which all stakeholders will benefit. I come to this Assembly also as a messenger of the peoples of southern Africa, a region striving to develop as a community of nations and peoples at peace with itself and with others and working towards balanced and integrated development. Last month, the people and the Government of Mozambique were honoured to host the nineteenth Summit of Heads of State or Government of our community, the Southern African Development Community. The Maputo Summit was held on the theme 2 “SADC in the next millennium: working together for peace, progress and prosperity”. It brought together heads of State or Government and other high-ranking representatives of all its 14 member States and, as guests, the heads of State of Nigeria, Uganda and Rwanda, the Secretary-General of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), the Executive Secretary of the Economic Commission for Africa, as well as other dignitaries representing a variety of other regional and international organizations. In reviewing the progress made over the previous 12 months, the Summit noted with satisfaction that the economies of the Community continued to grow at in average rate of 3 per cent, thanks to sound macroeconomic policies implemented by member States and to the harmonization and coordination of activities towards economic integration. However, in order to eradicate poverty, the region needs to grow at an average rate of 6 per cent per year. To achieve this objective we need to mobilize more regional resources as well as to consolidate an enabling environment to increase the share of foreign direct investment. We have once again resolved to commit ourselves to ensure that all of our countries and peoples can benefit as they must from the globalization process. To that end, efforts will continue to be made to consolidate peace throughout the region, to harmonize sectoral policies and to implement sound economic policies. During the Maputo Summit, the heads of State and Government signed three important documents: on wildlife, on health and on productivity. They welcomed the recent entry into force of the SADC Protocols on Shared Watercourse Systems, on Energy, on Transport, Communications and Meteorology, and on Combating Illicit Drug Trafficking, and the charter of the Regional Tourism Organization of Southern Africa. The entry into force of the Trade Protocol on 1 January 2000 will bring additional opportunities and challenges to our region, and will enhance the programme initiated a few years ago with the entry into force of other protocols. All these legal instruments are, indeed, important steps towards regional integration leading to a better future. In southern Africa, HIV/AIDS is spreading at an alarming rate. Governments in the SADC region, aware of the far-reaching negative consequences, are seeking collective and individual strategies to counter the spread of AIDS. In Lusaka, Zambia, we met at a regional level to look into advisable approaches that can enhance awareness within each country and to consider measures that can help Governments to mobilize financial and human resources to face this global threat. We have no choice: either we stop the spread of AIDS or we risk putting the viability of our societies at stake, because in our region the most qualified people are the ones at high risk. This scenario foretells our future. Our economic, social and political development will remain on the horizon, and the structures of our societies will be seriously undermined, unless effective, concrete steps are taken. In this context, my Government very recently adopted a national strategy against HIV/AIDS. The resolution on cooperation between SADC and the United Nations to be adopted this year must reflect the positive progress that has taken place within SADC, and stress the importance of greater interaction with the United Nations in all fields of common interest. At the same time, our Community — which is built on democratic principles, equitable and sustainable development, improved living standards of citizens, free movement of factors of production, goods and services — remains equally committed to strengthening its relationship with other regional organizations. The search for a durable peace is still a constant objective of the region. It is for this reason that we welcome the progress made in the settlement of the conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The signing of the agreement by all parties opens a new era for the region and beyond. What is required now is for the international community, particularly the United Nations, to meet its responsibilities by sending, as expeditiously as possible, peacekeeping forces with an appropriate mandate and adequate resources, under Chapter VII of the Charter, for the achievement of lasting peace and stability in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. We hope that the progress to which I have referred to above will make a positive impact on the Angolan conflict. The people of Angola must be given the opportunity to live in peace and harmony. The international community has a moral and political obligation to assist the Angolans to reverse the humanitarian tragedy which is unfolding in vast areas of their territory. At the same time, the international community, while supporting the Government of Angola in restoring peace and stability in that country, must call on Mr. Savimbi to abandon his aggressive and irresponsible action. In particular, the Security Council sanctions imposed on UNITA must be fully observed, in order to prevent further suffering in that SADC country. In this context, we salute the positive work already done 3 by Ambassador Robert Fowler, Chairman of the Security Council sanctions committee, and we encourage him to continue with his work. This is our vision of the future of Mozambique as an individual country and also that of SADC as a whole. The recurrence of conflicts in Africa has exacerbated the plight of children as the main victims. The recent Organization of African Unity (OAU) summit, held in Algiers, echoing the recommendations of the African Conference on the Use of Children as Soldiers, held in Maputo in April this year, adopted a resolution calling, inter alia, for the elaboration of an international convention outlawing the use of children under 18 years of age in armed conflicts. We urge all members of the United Nations to adhere to and support this initiative, which, in our view, must be associated with all other rights of the child. We believe that the implementation of that OAU resolution, together with the concept of “children as zone of peace” would constitute a valuable contribution to the protection of children. In this regard, I commend the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the Special Representative of the Secretary General on Children and Armed Conflict and non-governmental organizations for their relentless efforts to promote and ensure respect for the rights of the child. Moreover, the proliferation of small arms and light weapons, together with transnational crimes such as money laundering and drug trafficking, constitute major sources of instability for many countries, including my own. We in southern Africa are undertaking a coordinated action with a view to addressing these challenges and bringing about peace and stability. In May this year Maputo hosted the First Meeting of States parties to the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on their Destruction. The Maputo Meeting was held when thousands of innocent civilians were being maimed in many parts of the world, including my own country. The Meeting adopted a Declaration calling upon us to rededicate ourselves in the struggle against these insidious weapons, in fulfilment of our obligations under the Ottawa Convention. More important, the Maputo Meeting offered a unique opportunity to remind the international community of the need to meet the targets set by the Convention. In four years we must destroy all anti-personnel mines in warehouses, and in ten years we must complete the demining process in affected countries. As we concluded in Maputo, these targets are non-negotiable. What is negotiable is the ways and means for the attainment of these objectives. We therefore call upon all States and organizations in a position to do so to ensure that these goals are met. Failure to reach these goals would undermine the credibility of the international community and, above all, the universalization of the Convention. It is our earnest hope that the General Assembly will give additional impetus to the momentum created by the adoption of the Maputo Declaration. We in southern Africa are disturbed about the low levels of foreign direct investment in Africa. We are deeply concerned about recent evidence presented by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) showing a drastic reduction in official development assistance, in particular for Africa. More worrisome is the fact that the target of 0.7 per cent in official development assistance has never been entirely met, and, on the contrary, it has reached only one third of the established target. Lack of adequate funding has contributed to poor realization of the goals set by major international conferences, including those contained in the Cairo Programme of Action, which was reviewed during the recently held twenty-first special session of the General Assembly on population and development. Without political will there will be no sustainable development in the global economy, and the risk of the further marginalization of developing countries, with all of its negative consequences, will remain high. In addition, the issue of external indebtedness continues to be the single most important obstacle to the development of many countries, particularly in Africa. Efforts must be made to ensure that the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative is accessible to the countries in need. As I speak on this issue, I must once again thank the international community for the assistance rendered to Mozambique under this Initiative, as of last June. The fact of the matter, however, is that our debt burden continues to undermine our efforts to achieve sustainable development. We believe it is high time for the international community to start writing off the external debt of those countries that have made visible and 4 sustainable progress in the implementation of tough structural adjustment measures and political reforms. Such a course of action would undoubtedly provide more incentives for other countries to undertake these measures and to redirect resources to the social sectors, in particular for the provision of water and better education and to fight the HIV/AIDS pandemic. My Government wishes to commend the 5 May Agreement signed by the Governments of Indonesia, Portugal and United Nations which culminated in the holding of a referendum in East Timor. We salute the people of East Timor for the exemplary and orderly manner in which they participated in the referendum and for the clear and unequivocal way in which they decided for independence. We are deeply saddened and gravely concerned over the tragic developments that have followed the announcement of the results of the referendum. We are particularly distressed over the fact that massacres against innocent civilians and indiscriminate destruction of property have occurred, largely due to the failure by Indonesia to secure order and by the international community to act expeditiously. The fact that the East Timor tragedy occurred when similar situations had been prevented not long ago leads us to believe in the existence of passivity and selectivity in dealing with issues that undermine international peace and security. We nevertheless commend the decision taken by the Security Council to send a mission to Jakarta and Dili and the subsequent actions taken with the cooperation of the Government of Indonesia. Along with restoring peace and stability, efforts must be made to provide a speedy humanitarian response to assist the people who were displaced or became refugees as a result of the unprecedented levels of violence we have witnessed in that territory. The tragedy in East Timor underlines the importance of translating into deeds the relevant recommendations contained in the “Report of the Secretary-General to the Security Council on the protection of civilians in armed conflict”. Mozambique has given its modest contribution to the United Nations Mission in East Timor and stands ready to continue to play a role in future efforts of the international community. On behalf of my Government and on my own behalf, I wish to seize this opportunity to convey our deepest sympathy to those who have lost their loved ones. It is our hope that their suffering will not be in vain, and that the United Nations and all parties will ensure the early implementation of the results of the referendum. The issue of East Timor reminds us of other people who are striving for self-determination. We are encouraged by the latest positive developments that have taken place in the Middle East. They confirm that, with the necessary political will, taking into account the interests of all parties to the conflict, peace is possible in that region. Our task is to help the Palestinians and the Israelis take maximum advantage of the momentum that has been created as a result of the signing of the Sharm el-Sheik Memorandum, on 4 September 1999, following the deadlock in the implementation of the Wye River Memorandum of 23 October 1998. Success in the implementation of the current Memorandum depends on strict observance of the principle of land for peace. Recent incidents along the common border between India and Pakistan are a source of great concern to all peace-loving countries. We call upon both Governments to exercise maximum restraint and to refrain from taking actions that might jeopardize further the already volatile situation along their common border. It is our earnest hope that the United Nations intervention in Kosovo will bring lasting peace and stability to that territory and the region. To this end Mozambique is contributing with a small team of police officers. We equally hope that now that the Lockerbie issue is in the hands of justice, the Security Council will honour its undertakings by lifting the sanctions on Libya. Both the final settlement of this issue and the holding of a referendum in Western Sahara will have a positive impact on the development of Africa. We are at the threshold of the next century, and the challenges ahead are enormous. They require stronger commitment and greater international cooperation. In this connection, we wish to commend the Secretary-General for organizing the Millennium Assembly and the millennium summit for the year 2000. Indeed, there could be no better way to inaugurate the new era than by assembling all world leaders to reflect on the strategies and policies that will govern our planet in the next millennium. Whatever themes we choose to debate, they should include the promotion of a culture of peace within nations, regions and throughout the world, for this will allow the realization of all other objectives, in particular the eradication of poverty, promotion of development, 5 protection of human rights and meeting the challenges of globalization. It is therefore our hope that the forthcoming historic gatherings will signal the beginning of the crystallization of the process of building a better and safer world by producing meaningful strategies, actions and policies that will guide the United Nations of tomorrow. We agree that these high-level events should not result merely in the adoption of declarations that cannot be translated into concrete actions for both the United Nations and Governments. We should therefore aim at pragmatic, action-oriented and implementable decisions. Then, and only then, shall we meet the aspirations of the founding fathers of our universal Organization. Let me begin by congratulating Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab on his election as President of this fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. I wish him all the best in carrying out his duties. As the General Assembly convenes for the last time before the Millennium Assembly, I believe that it is appropriate to consider the United Nations future and how we can prepare our Organization for the twenty-first century. Fifty-four years after its founding, the United Nations remains the largest multi-purpose intergovernmental Organization in the world. Indeed, with 188 Members, the United Nations has become truly global. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome Kiribati, Nauru and Tonga to the United Nations family. The United Nations faces a vastly different set of international issues from those of fifty-four years ago, when the Organization was founded. Most threats to international security and stability are no longer State-driven but rather derive from the malfunction or dysfunction of States. The consequences of these threats, however, are just as severe as the erstwhile threats by States. Terrorism, corruption, economic collapse, nuclear meltdowns, mass migration and ethnic strife are but a few of the challenges that the world has had to face in recent years. The violent conflict in East Timor, “ethnic cleansing” in Kosovo, and the recent re-escalation of violence in Chechnya are but a few vivid examples of the new kinds of threats that we face today. The United Nations has a crucial role to play in combating these and other international threats. But before it can start to play a more active role in the post-cold-war international order, serious structural reforms are needed. Estonia believes that reforms should focus above all on the Security Council. Formally, the Council, originally intended to be the cornerstone of collective security, is vested with strong executive authority. Yet in practice its authority is challenged. Because of a recurring failure or inability to take action, countries in crisis situations look less and less to the Council. In order for the United Nations to avoid relegation to the status of a body that creates norms but cannot ensure their implementation, voting procedures and mechanisms in the United Nations most powerful body should be reformed. The key issue is voting practice, not the shopworn issue of non-permanent membership. The often irresponsible exercise of the veto, or even more often the threat of the veto, has paralysed the Security Council and undermined its legitimacy. More and more often we witness some permanent members taking actions to meet their domestic interests and foreign policy goals in areas irrelevant to the issue at hand. We as Member States have given the mandate to the Council. Even before we are able to carry out the reforms, we must entrust the permanent members to use the veto with utmost responsibility. As we look around this Hall, or at the globe, we can all observe that the world today is not what it was half a century ago — thank God. The United Nations was created to maintain peace in the wake of the turmoil of the Second World War. Today we are already into the second decade of the post-cold-war order, two generations removed from the problems faced by our grandfathers. Why, then, should we be constrained by obsolescent structures still based on the power relationships of 1945? The guarantors of and greatest contributors to stability in the world have changed fundamentally in the course of half a century. We need not fear opening a discussion on whether the moral and legal reasoning underlying Security Council membership in the wake of the Second World War is still appropriate for the post-cold-war era. Following from this, another area where Estonia believes reforms are vitally needed is that of the informal regional groups that provide the basis for election procedures. Many of these groups are based on a now irrelevant cold war ideological and geopolitical alignment. A decade after the end of the cold war the East-West divide has disappeared, and regional groups, such as the Eastern European Group, which were a product of that divide, simply no longer make sense. In order to make United Nations structures correspond to today’s realities, those regional groups should become truly geographic. Allow me now to turn to economic and social development. We can all agree that over the years the United Nations has been most successful in that area. The United Nations system has devoted more attention and resources to development than to any other international assistance effort. Although these non-political activities have received less attention than efforts in the field of peacekeeping and diplomacy, they are no less important. Many countries, including mine, have benefited from United Nations assistance. We believe, however, that it is time to start to pay back. Providing development and humanitarian assistance is a logical and moral consequence of our membership of the international community. It should be the goal of every country. In this regard, I would like to observe that most United Nations activities, whether in the field of peacekeeping or economic assistance, almost invariably become permanent. Permanence, however, is not a sign of success; it is a sign of failure. The United Nations should therefore concentrate more on preventive actions and on implementing well-planned, well-targeted and timely programmes with a clear exit strategy. That, in turn, will encourage success and positive development, not dependency. Estonia values the United Nations function as a normative Organization that sets international standards and universal principles for its Members. The gross violations of human rights witnessed this year, including killings and mass deportations reminiscent of those experienced by my country 50 years ago, show that it is more important than ever that countries adhere to common international norms and standards in the field of human rights. As the only truly global Organization, the United Nations should play a greater role in making sure that universal principles, enshrined in the United Nations Charter, are fairly and fully applied. To pursue this goal I call upon all countries to support wholeheartedly the activities of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. Every year hundreds and thousands of innocent people perish as a result of brutal terrorist actions. The General Assembly has passed a number of resolutions on the fight against terrorism, and currently no fewer than 11 anti-terrorism conventions have been adopted. In the light of the recent terrorist attacks in Russia, we believe that the fight against terrorism should be pursued with even greater zeal. Terrorism of all kinds should be globally condemned and eradicated. At the same time, however, the fight against terrorism should not serve as a pretext for equally gross violations of human rights, forcible detention and the deportation of tens of thousands of innocent people all over a country without due process, simply because of the colour of their skin or their ethnic background. Allow me to conclude by saying a few words on the issue of financing. If the United Nations is to enter the twenty-first century as a serious and effective Organization, we must commit ourselves to economic realities. This means administrative reform, zero budget 2 growth and fiscal responsibility, combined with a firm commitment by all countries to pay their share. The gist of Estonia’s message is that the world has changed dramatically in the past half century. Let us adapt the Organization to reflect the realities of today. Let us make the United Nations an Organization that will continue to play a vital and prominent role far into the new millennium.  It is my pleasure to express my sincere congratulations to Mr. Gurirab on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. His election to this eminent position reflects the appreciation of the international community for him personally and for the positive role played by country, Namibia, in the international arena. I am confident that his presidency at this session will be an effective factor in achieving the objectives to which the international community aspires under the present critical circumstances. I would like to take this opportunity to convey to Mr. Didier Opertti, Foreign Minister of Uruguay and President of the General Assembly at its fifty-third session, our appreciation, esteem and praise for his effective, wise and objective conduct of the Assembly’s work. I am also pleased to express my appreciation and esteem to Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who manages the affairs of this international Organization with great competence born of experience and who makes continuous efforts and persistent endeavours to achieve peace, security and stability in our modern world. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is also pleased to welcome the admission of the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga to the membership of the United Nations and hopes that their admission will further enhance the effectiveness of the Organization in achieving the noble goals it was created for. Some years have passed since we celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. That celebration was a glorious occasion on which we reviewed the purposes and principles of this international Organization and the opportunities and challenges it had faced over the previous decades. We also reviewed its achievements in maintaining world peace and security and the difficulties and obstacles that it managed to deal with and overcome through the belief of its Members and the nobility of its ideals and objectives. The existence of this Organization, and its ability to find solutions to many of 32 the problems that have rocked our turbulent world, despite all the challenges it has faced, makes us all the more convinced of the vitality of its role, a role that has become more pressing and urgent due to recent developments in the world. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, as a founding Member of this Organization, continues to hold the same ideals and values that motivated it to join this universal effort with the other founding Members. The founders called for the rejection of war and the establishment of peace and for constructive cooperation among all peoples of this world. This was after a series of disasters and catastrophes had overwhelmed the human race during two destructive world wars that claimed millions of lives and left behind devastation and ruin. Wars and military confrontations are no longer thought of as politics or diplomacy by other means. Violence and warfare with modern lethal weapons can never be an effective means to attain political ends, nor a viable approach to achieving diplomatic gains. In today’s world there is no victor in any military confrontation. Our Organization’s objective of achieving cooperation in social and economic areas among peoples of the world is no longer a mere wish or luxury; in fact, it has become an unavoidable necessity as a result of recent political and economic developments, as well as of major advances and revolutions, unprecedented in human history, in technology and communications. As a result of these changes and developments, the world has been transformed from a vast collection of entities and multilateral trends and patterns into a village in which every part is affected by what ails the other part. These parts are interdependent as regards many of their vital needs and environmental conditions. The concept of globalization, which has become an integral part of our daily discourse, is nothing more than a condensed formula for the intellectual and existential changes that have overtaken the lives of our people and the work of States in the last two decades. If we are going to deal with this phenomenon in a way that emphasizes the positives and discards the negatives, we must adjust to it by developing our institutions and procedures. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia confirms, as it always has in the past, its steady commitment to the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and would like to reiterate the need for supporting this Organization and its specialized agencies. They provide a viable framework for cooperation between countries and peoples for facing the tidal wave of globalization. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia also emphasizes once again that the ability of this international Organization to resolve global problems and to fulfil its basic responsibilities depends very much on the political will of the Member States to implement the principles, ideals, visions and expectations embodied in the Organization’s Charter. What is meant by political will here is the degree to which each Member State is ready to carry out its commitment, adhere to the letter of the Charter of the United Nations and submit its conduct to the rules of the Charter. In this regard, my Government is quite cognizant of the importance of modernizing the agencies of our Organization in a manner that enables the Organization to play its required role and to deal with the new developments that are taking place in contemporary international relations. The Security Council, being responsible for preserving international peace and security, remains the pivot around which different kinds of ideas for reform are being expressed. In this regard, my country’s point of view continues to be based on a deep conviction that any restructuring of the Security Council must endeavour to improve its capabilities to perform effectively its role under the Charter and to be more active in implementing its own resolutions and in dealing with international crises. In addition, the policies of the Council should harmonize with the will of the General Assembly in a manner that achieves the required balance and the desired objectivity. The General Assembly resolution declaring 2001 the United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations manifests the desire of the international community to enter the third millennium firmly resolved to see harmony, justice and equality prevail among nations. It also shows the Assembly’s desire for everyone to participate in building a world that is balanced in terms of interests and mutual benefits in which people enjoy equitable living conditions free from fear, terror, hunger and poverty; a world in which the principles of justice, triumph and peace and prosperity are available to all. The dialogue among civilizations is the ideal alternative to theories of conflict and of the inevitable clash of civilizations. This compels us to affirm the importance of dialogue and harmony among nations and the need to observe differences in the nature of societies and in their beliefs, and to respect peoples’ and nations’ freedom of choice, as well as the need to abide by the rules of international law. This Organization, in both the Security Council and the General Assembly, has been preoccupied throughout 33 its history with the Middle East question and the achievement of a permanent and comprehensive solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict. When, in Madrid at the end of October 1991, the peace process was launched — with all its bilateral and multilateral tracks and on the basis of principles accepted by all parties to the conflict — everyone believed that a new era of peace, stability and growth was looming and that this era would put an end to the phase of wars and conflicts that had exhausted the energies and capabilities of the peoples of the region. In fact, the peace process in all its aspects did move forward and some progress has been achieved, especially on the Palestinian and Jordanian tracks. The multilateral talks relating to regional cooperation also gained some ground. The peace process then suffered from paralysis and reached an impasse due to the policies and practices of the former Israeli Government, and in spite of the fact that the Arabs had declared peace an irrevocable strategic choice. However, this did not change the practices of the former Israeli Government and its disregard for the principles of the peace process, nor remedy its failure to fulfil its obligations under the agreements signed with the Palestinians, including the Wye River Memorandum. At present there is an attempt to revive the peace process. Assurances issued by the new Israeli Prime Minister indicate that he intends to activate the peace process on all tracks. The Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum, signed on 4 September of this year, could be a good step if followed by similar steps to move the process towards the bases and principles that were established at the Madrid Conference — the principle of land for peace, first and foremost. On the Palestinian track, peace requires withdrawal from the occupied territories and the restoration of all the legitimate national rights of the Palestinians, including their right to establish their own independent State with Jerusalem as its capital. The final status issue of Jerusalem should be addressed in accordance with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 252 (1968). Jerusalem is part of the occupied territories, and Israel should refrain from undertaking any unilateral measures that prejudice the status of that sacred city. It is imperative and natural that any comprehensive and permanent settlement address the issue of the return of the Palestinian refugees, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 194 (III). It should also address the issues of the release of prisoners, settlements and water resources, among others. As for the Syrian track, negotiations should resume at the point where they left off because of a decision of the previous Israeli Government. It is well known that Syria remains willing and prepared to reach a comprehensive and permanent solution based on the principle of land for peace. The Lebanese track is subject to Security Council resolution 425 (1978), which calls for the immediate and unconditional withdrawal of the Israeli forces from southern Lebanon and western Bekaa. More than nine years after Iraq’s aggression against the State of Kuwait, it is still procrastinating on the implementation of crucial parts of the relevant Security Council resolutions. The Iraqi people are still paying the price for crimes committed by their regime and for its continual challenges to international legality. In spite of all Arab and international initiatives and proposals aimed at finding an effective mechanism and process to lift the economic sanctions imposed on Iraq and to end the suffering of the Iraqi people, the Iraqi Government has not responded in a manner that might help move matters in the right direction. What encourages the Iraqi Government to continue manoeuvring and procrastinating is the fact that the Security Council itself is unable to take action due to the inability of its permanent members to agree on a common approach and on the proposals under discussion. These proposals are aimed at finding a way out of the current crisis by reviving the inspection and monitoring of banned Iraqi weapons and at regulating the present and future relations between Iraq and the United Nations. No matter what the circumstances, Iraq should be required to fully implement all international resolutions relating to its aggression against Kuwait and to cooperate seriously with the International Committee of the Red Cross to achieve the release of all Kuwaiti and non-Kuwaiti prisoners and detainees, as well as the restitution of Kuwaiti property. It should also refrain from all provocative or aggressive acts against the State of Kuwait and other neighbouring countries, in compliance with Security Council resolution 949 (1994), and prove its peaceful intentions towards its neighbours in word and deed. This is the proper way to put an end to the human suffering for which the Iraqi regime bears sole responsibility. The pain which the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and its sisterly countries in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) feel towards such human suffering is commensurate only with their keenness to preserve the independence, unity and territorial integrity of Iraq. 34 Relations between the Islamic Republic of Iran and the Gulf Cooperation Council member States have lately been buoyed by the positive attitude of the Iranian Government. Yet, there remain outstanding issues to be resolved, particularly that of the three United Arab Emirates islands of Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa. The GCC Foreign Ministers, with the approval and blessing of the United Arab Emirates Government, decided to refer the matter to a tripartite committee entrusted with creating a climate conducive to direct negotiations between the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran. This trend reflects the desire of the United Arab Emirates to resolve the outstanding issues in a positive spirit. We feel optimistic about this issue in the light of the demonstrated desire of President Mohammad Khatami to open a new chapter in Iran's relations with the Gulf countries, characterized by good-neighbourliness, non-interference in internal affairs and constructive cooperation to the benefit and interest of both sides. Just when it seemed that the problem of Bosnia and Herzegovina was resolved in accordance with the provisions of the Dayton Accords — which laid the ground for Bosnian independence and sovereignty, paved the way for the return of refugees, provided for the pursuit and arrest of officials responsible for the crimes of ethnic cleansing and genocide, and the establishment of domestic peace — the Balkan region witnessed a crisis in Kosovo no less devastating in its human dimensions than that in Bosnia. Like the Bosnians, the Kosovars were exposed to ethnic cleansing, genocide, repression, intimidation and forced deportation at the hands of Serbian forces as the world watched. Once again, the United Nations faced the problem of dealing with a dangerous situation that threatened the entire Balkan region. This situation was reversed only by the intervention of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization forces after Serbia refused to accept the provisions of the Rambouillet agreement. Resort to military force without a United Nations mandate to resolve such problems might not be the ideal way to settle international crises, but it becomes an unavoidable necessity whenever the Security Council, due to disunity and disagreements between its permanent Members, fails to fulfil its role in maintaining world peace and security. We hope that this pattern will not be repeated, so that the United Nations may preserve its dignity and integrity. Many regions of the world remain plagued by wars, regional and ethnic conflicts, border disputes and national and tribal conflicts. Fighting between the Afghan factions still rages, denying Afghanistan and its people the fruits of liberation from foreign occupation. It is regrettable to see that some have exploited the current situation in Afghanistan to turn the country into a terrorist haven and training base, thereby contributing to the country's insecurity and instability and exposing the Afghan people to more suffering. My country supports the efforts of the United Nations and the Organization of Islamic Conference to re-establish peace and security throughout Afghanistan. The Pakistani-Indian conflict over Jammu and Kashmir remains a source of tension and instability between the two neighbourly countries, especially after the recent military escalation between them. We call on both sides to exercise utmost restraint and to settle the conflict through negotiations in compliance with United Nations resolutions, which recognize the right of the people of Jammu and Kashmir to self-determination. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has been following with great concern the latest developments in East Timor. While it welcomes the positive stand taken by the Indonesian Government, especially its cooperation with the United Nations, it wishes to affirm the need to respect the regional sovereignty of the Republic of Indonesia and the importance of peace and security throughout the region. The scenes of fighting and armed conflict between brothers in Africa, especially in the Horn, are a source of pain to us. These conflicts will only deepen wounds and enlarge the circle of poverty and distress. In this regard, we still have high expectations in the wisdom of the leaders of that great continent to consider the ultimate interests of their nations and to resolve conflicts through peaceful means. The international community was pleased to put an end to the Lockerbie issue, which caused much suffering for Libya and its people. We look forward to a Security Council resolution that would lead to a final lifting of all sanctions imposed on Libya by virtue of its positive reaction to international appeals and its adherence to all conditions related to this issue. I would also like to praise the people of Algeria for the great mandate they gave their new leadership to move forward with the suggested reconciliation plan that aims at ending the era of differences and violence, which was extremely painful for the fraternal people of Algeria. 35 The Government of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques is keenly interested in the ongoing efforts to eliminate weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East, including the Arabian Gulf region. This is demonstrated through its support for the efforts of the Arab League at its 101st session, which called for making that sensitive part of the world a zone free of all weapons of mass destruction, be they nuclear, chemical or biological. In this respect, we are greatly concerned about Israel's continued refusal to accede to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), thus keeping its nuclear programmes outside the range of international inspections and constituting a serious threat to the region's security. We believe in the urgent need to increase the effectiveness of the NPT through the activation and universalization of the International Atomic Energy Agency's safeguards system. We also find it extremely important to establish the necessary controls and measures that would assist in achieving progress in all areas of the comprehensive disarmament of all weapons of mass destruction, in conformity with General Assembly resolution 1 (I) of 1946. The scourge of terrorism, which strikes indiscriminately throughout the world, has become an international phenomenon with grave consequences, requiring systematic international efforts to contain and combat it. The Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has regularly condemned terrorism in all its forms, lending its voice to international efforts aimed at combating this dangerous phenomenon. What needs to be emphasized here is that violence and terrorism are universal phenomena not restricted to a certain people, race or religion. Precisely because of the comprehensiveness and universality of terrorism, the only way to combat it effectively is through unified and collective international action within the framework of the United Nations, which alone can put an end to terrorism, save the lives of innocent people and preserve the independence and sovereignty of the countries of the world. Fighting terrorism calls for international cooperation against sheltering terrorist groups and individuals, thereby preventing them from exploiting the territories and laws of the States where they live to pursue their destructive activities, regardless of their pretexts and arguments. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia considers environmental issues and environmental protection of key importance, as evidenced by their prominent place in our domestic and foreign policies. This is because we believe that a safe decent life for mankind is directly connected to the environment. That is why the Kingdom has actively participated in all relevant conferences and international gatherings, symposiums and arrangements. We have also become party to several regional and international agreements that are geared towards this cause. We only hope that international efforts related to the problems of the environment will be formulated in a balanced and objective manner based on serious scientific facts and studies that take into account development needs in the developing world. We call upon all States to abide by Agenda 21. We also urge the industrialized States in particular to live up to their obligations regarding the transfer of environment-friendly technology to the developing nations. The emerging phenomenon of globalization, which is forcing geographic borders to recede and sovereignty and political barriers to disappear, has become an issue to which all nations must adjust. We are required now, more than ever before, to address this phenomenon in a way that brings about a world of balanced interests, mutual benefits and equal opportunities for all. If we are to achieve this goal, the developing nations must redouble their domestic environmental efforts in order to catch up with the global economy. They are further called upon to intensify their efforts to remove the barriers that hinder their integration into the multifaceted world trade system. They are also required to adjust their economic policies and to establish the infrastructures necessary for their manufactured goods to meet the standard specifications of the importing countries. In return, industrial and economically developed nations should contribute to the fulfilment of the desired goals in the following ways: first, by displaying greater flexibility in the conditions of admission to the World Trade Organization (WTO) by giving developing countries longer interim periods that are in line with their development needs and to help them adjust their systems and laws to the requirements of membership; secondly, by giving developing countries enhanced opportunities to benefit from the system of general preferences, to expand distribution of their products and to provide guarantees for greater stability and transparency in the regimes governing those products; thirdly, by limiting the imposition of protective measures by industrialized nations on major imports from developing nations that hinder their integration into world markets and reduce their ability to compete, and removing the obstacles faced by developing countries; and fourthly, ensuring that industrial nations carry out their obligations to developing countries, as set forth in the Uruguay Round and in the 36 WTO agreements, by providing direct and indirect assistance and restructuring or forgiveness of debts. The industrialized nations should also open their markets to the developing nations’ exports and refrain from adopting unjust procedures to limit the size and flow of such exports. In this context, it is worth noting that the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has been at the forefront of contributions to the promotion and development of developing countries, whether bilaterally or multilaterally. In the same vein, and in view of the Kingdom’s desire to shape future trends in the world economy, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has applied for admission to the WTO and hopes, God willing, to gain the support of friendly nations in order to finalize the admission procedure as soon as possible. As we prepare for the third millennium, we are overwhelmed by different feelings and emotions. In view of the conflicts and the social, economic, cultural and environmental challenges that we currently face, optimism is mixed with pessimism about the future of our world in the coming historical period. If the purpose of creating the United Nations was to convert the logic of war and confrontation into the language of dialogue and cooperation, at a time when the cost of using military force has become exorbitant and the outcome uncertain, we now live in a new period full of signs that require us to work together as hard as possible and to cooperate not only in the face of political and military challenges, but also in confronting the new challenges of contemporary life, with all its complexities and complications, which can only be solved or managed through organized collective efforts. Our firm belief that the United Nations can play a major role in dealing with current issues and enhancing international cooperation in order to resolve and contain these issues makes us more determined than ever to support this Organization and endorse its constructive role. One of the valuable lessons we have learned from United Nations activities is the need to enable our Organization to detect crises and to move to contain them before they erupt by applying preventive diplomacy to the fullest extent. Moving to manage crises before they grow is the best way to avoid their harmful consequences and repercussions. In conclusion, I must re-emphasize a basic fact: in order to solve today’s problems it has become vitally necessary for us to cooperate in a spirit of total disinterest, objectivity and responsibility. The future of the United Nations, which is also our future, depends on this. Allah says in the Holy Koran: “Help ye one another In righteousness and piety, But help ye not one another In sin and rancour”. (The Holy Koran, V:2)  Mr. President, I am pleased to join previous speakers in congratulating you and the other members of the Bureau on your election to guide the work of the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. Given your vast diplomatic experience and personal attachment to the principles of the Charter, I have every hope that our deliberations under your guidance will be able to determine the necessary mechanisms for dealing with the numerous challenges facing our Organization as we move into the next century. I also wish to express the deep sense of gratitude of my delegation to your predecessor, His Excellency Didier Opertti, who served with great distinction in the year which marked the implementation of reforms instituted by the Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, to mould the Organization into a tool that can better fulfil the needs of Member States. As we enter a new century, our Organization must make a realistic assessment of developments in the 16 out-going century, especially in this last decade. Such an assessment will indicate that while global peace and security have been pursued relentlessly, they have not been easily nor fully achieved. The reasons are not hard to find. The situation is aggravated by the multiplicity of conflicts that pervades the world, especially in Africa. Intrastate conflicts, rooted in ethnic, racial and religious intolerance, pose a threat to the security and stability of many States and regions. While we welcome the agreements to end the conflict in Sierra Leone and the Democratic Republic of Congo, the prolonged hostilities in Angola, Somalia, and lately in Kosovo, demonstrate that the international community is still grappling with serious challenges to peace and security. In spite of such setbacks and disappointments, we must continue to maintain trust and confidence in the United Nations ability to achieve sustainable socio-economic development for Member States. But that confidence will be sustained only when the Organization is seen to be truly seeking the interest of all Member States, without exception. In this regard, Member States must give impetus to the reform process that we initiated a decade ago and maintain its dynamism. We also must accept that the core of the reform touches on the Security Council, whose decisions bind all Members of the Organization. The Security Council must therefore not be allowed to become irrelevant. It should be reformed to ensure that it can undertake its responsibilities more effectively under the Charter. And this reform must be guided by the principles of democracy, sovereign equality of States and equitable geographical representation. In this connection, we wholly subscribe to the Non-Aligned Movement’s statement on all aspects of the question of increase in the membership of the Security Council, complemented by the African position as expressed in the Harare declaration of June 1997. Africa’s claim to at least two permanent seats should be adequately addressed, since Africa is the largest regional group in the Organization. We would also like to reiterate the proposal of the Non-Aligned Movement that a periodic review of the structure and functioning of the Security Council is necessary in order to ensure at all times that it responds more effectively to new challenges in international relations, especially in the maintenance of international peace and security. It is only through a restructuring of the Council on these lines that this body can avoid selectivity in dealing with issues of international peace and security and sustainable development. The present unequal handling of the causes and management of conflicts is unacceptable since it indirectly allows some conflicts to drag on. My delegation believes that we can succeed in our collective effort to achieve peace and prosperity in the next century if we begin to speak out boldly against some of the injustices on the international scene. We therefore reiterate our concern over the continued non-compliance with key United Nations resolutions that call for an end to the commercial and financial embargo against Cuba. It is our sincere conviction that the economic blockade of more than three decades’ vintage against Cuba and the Helms-Burton and D’Amato legislation are a breach of international law and a violation of the principles of the United Nations Charter. Particularly, Ghana considers the extraterritorial effect of the Helms-Burton and D’Amato legislation an infringement on the territorial integrity of States and an impediment to international navigation and free trade. In this regard, we are concerned that the economic blockade continues to severely aggravate the plight of Cubans, especially the vulnerable groups such as women, children and the elderly. Given the United States Government’s recent sensitivity to the concerns of the international community, Ghana would like to urge it to seriously consider the resumption of indirect relations with Cuba. We are convinced that such contacts will yield desired results, especially if they take place in the context of constructive dialogue with the Cuban Government. Another area of concern to the international community has been the lingering disagreements with the great Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. My delegation welcomes the positive events of 5 April 1999, by which the two Libyan nationals arrived in the Netherlands for trial by a Scottish court, in connection with the Lockerbie incident. We therefore can do no less than to reiterate the position of the Group of African States at the United Nations, the Non-Aligned Movement, and the Council of the League of Arab States that, as a matter of urgency, the Security Council should move beyond a mere suspension to a complete lifting of the sanctions imposed against the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, since Libya has cooperated fully and fulfilled all the requirements of the relevant resolutions. 17 No issue in recent memory has frustrated the international community more than the Middle East peace process. Last year, as the world marked the fiftieth anniversary of the forcible dispossession of the Palestinian people of their lands, homes and property, the Wye River Memorandum was agreed, offering a fresh impetus and hope for progress. However, subsequent events — characterized by prevarications, recriminations and bad faith — inhibited full implementation of the Memorandum. Even more painful has been the seeming helplessness of the international community in the face of such obvious injustice. Ghana reiterates its unwavering support for the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to the establishment of an independent sovereign State with Jerusalem as its capital. Happily, recent changes in the political landscape of Israel offer grounds for renewed optimism. We thus share the conviction of the Palestinian leader, Chairman Yasser Arafat, that Mr. Ehud Barak’s victory has raised hopes for peace throughout the region. We commend the bold initiative taken by the Israeli leader, soon after assuming office, to resume dialogue and reach a meeting of minds with the Palestinians. The challenge ahead is enormous but not insurmountable; it will require painful compromises on sensitive issues. We urge all parties to negotiate in good faith towards a comprehensive, just and lasting peace in the Middle East. Ghana is proud of its participation and record in the peacekeeping efforts of the Organization in all regions of the world. The sacrifices in material resources and the costs in human terms have not been in vain, since the maintenance of peace and security and post-conflict peace- building have been critical in assuring all of us of the global tranquillity necessary for sustained development. My delegation believes therefore that the time has come for the international community to do in Africa as much as it has done in other areas, particularly the Balkans, to guarantee peace. We have seen in the past few months the kind of resources that the world has been willing and able to mobilize in the Balkans on short notice. We do not see the same response to the tragedies of Africa. African Member States feel discriminated against when the response of the international community to conflicts on the continent continues to be muted or lukewarm. Nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction are indispensable for the preservation of world peace. Yet the lack of commitment and political will of the nuclear weapon countries continues to impede the process of nuclear disarmament. This is demonstrated by the failure of the three Preparatory Committee sessions for the 2000 Review Conference for the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). Against this background, my delegation reiterates the warning that the parties and non-parties to the NPT alike will not continue indefinitely to abide by the Treaty while the nuclear-weapon countries continue to ignore the calls of the international community to abide by their NPT commitments and pursue negotiations in good faith on effective measures relating to the cessation of the nuclear arms race at an early date and to nuclear disarmament under strict and effective international control. The proliferation of conventional weapons, notably small and light weapons, is equally of concern, since they are the tools of violence and conflict in Africa. My delegation commends all the efforts aimed at securing international cooperation and coordination in the struggle against the accumulation, proliferation and widespread use of small arms. Naturally, we welcome the recent decision taken on small arms and light weapons by the heads of State of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) at their recent summit in Algiers which, among others, called on OAU member States to adopt a coordinated approach to the problems posed by the illicit trafficking, circulation and proliferation of these arms. We also urge all friends of Africa to support the implementation of the moratorium on the import, export and manufacture of small arms and light weapons in West Africa, which aims at stemming the illicit traffic in these weapons in our subregion. My Government, in recognition of the need to address this problem and the related issue of the forced participation of children in armed conflicts, intends to jointly host with the Government of Canada a workshop aimed at building on the Mali moratorium and establishing a framework for keeping children out of conflicts. It is our hope that the support of the international community will be forthcoming when the time comes. We are at the dawn of the new millennium, concluding a period in which the decolonization movement has brought about one of the century’s signal transformations: that of more than 80 nations from colonial status to self-rule and membership of this Organization. This is a commendable achievement. Nevertheless, the goal of the Plan of Action for the International Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism has not been realized, since 17 Non-Self-Governing 18 Territories remain on the agenda of this Assembly. We reiterate our continued belief in the right of all peoples to self-determination in accordance with General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) and call on the administering, occupying or colonial Powers to cooperate with the relevant institutions of the United Nations for the speedy determination of self-rule. While we congratulate the United Nations and ourselves for the commendable record in bringing colonies to self-rule, we cannot hide our deep disappointment at the recent turn of events in East Timor. Since a significant number of States Members of the United Nations are the product of self-determination, our Organization has a moral and political obligation to bring East Timor to self-rule. We call on both the United Nations and the administering Power, therefore, to take all measures necessary to restore peace and tranquility so that the true wishes of the people, as clearly expressed in the recent referendum, can be respected without further delay. If we are concerned about subjugated territories, then we cannot remain silent over the continued plight of Western Sahara. The people of that territory must exercise true self-determination and we believe that, since the Polisario Front and Morocco have accepted the Secretary- General’s programme on implementation of the Settlement Plan for the referendum in the territory, then the promised referendum should be held without further delay. We call on all stakeholders to demonstrate good will and fairness by ensuring a free and fair referendum. The phenomenon of extreme and widespread poverty in the midst of plenty in the world is a serious indictment of the conscience and political will of the international community. Compared to the social situation at the onset of this century, the next century begins with an even bleaker outlook. More and more people are living at or below the poverty line, while individual security and well-being continue to face disruptions from civil conflict and disease. Malnutrition, malaria, AIDS, diarrheal and communicable diseases continue to kill millions of people, stifling the economic potential of large segments of populations. HIV/AIDS alone has killed in the last decade more Africans than have all the conflicts and other diseases. It is a frightening thought that millions of Africa’s young and productive populations will be killed by this pandemic in the next few years. What development and progress are we talking about, then, if we will have no human resource to implement them? The continued deterioration of economic conditions in Africa poses a challenge to all of us, especially as all statistics show that the world’s poor continue to wallow in abject poverty with only a dim hope of improvement in their living standards. One of the main requirements of our current session of the General Assembly is therefore to select for implementation those measures that will enable developing countries to grow out of poverty in a sustainable environment. My delegation continues to be concerned about the deterioration of official development assistance, even though we note with gratitude the decision by three industrialized countries to increase their gross national product allocation to aid, and the steadfastness of Denmark, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden, which are providing more than 0.7 per cent of their gross national product. Official development assistance resources need to be increased to levels which, combined with the commitment of developing countries to deepening economic reforms, lead to early achievement of sustainability in growth, poverty reduction and macroeconomic stability. If we must break the cycle of crises, poverty and instability, particularly in Africa, and if we must create the conditions for sustainable debt management on the continent, the creditor countries and institutions must be prepared to wipe out the debts of the countries involved in the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt (HIPC) Initiative and begin the new millennium on a clean slate. In this connection, we note with appreciation the recently announced decision and support of the G-7 countries in broadening, deepening and accelerating the HIPC Initiative. While we express our satisfaction, let me hasten to urge that care be taken to avoid the imposition of additional difficulties on HIPC countries in the process, such as are likely to befall HIPC gold-producing countries if the proposal to sell off some of the gold reserves of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to meet part of the cost of the expanded HIPC Initiative is followed through. Similarly, we pray all creditor countries not to present debt relief in conditionalities that would compel debtor countries to give up the relief option. In these days of globalization and trade liberalization, the developed countries must also open their markets to goods from developing countries, including providing greater access for the latter’s agricultural produce and services. The developed countries must, in addition, implement their trade obligations in the 19 spirit that all must benefit from the trade rules. In this regard, the twin concepts of liberalization and globalization must afford developing countries economic justice in terms of markets and activities. They should not turn developing countries into perpetual consumers because of limited volume of goods and market access. As we approach the next century, we know we cannot build the kind of future we desire without the full participation of women. Although much has been achieved in advancing the status of women through the implementation of the Beijing Platform for Action, a lot still remains to be done. Discrimination, denial and violence against women and girls persist, embedded in cultural, traditional and religious practices around the world, despite the increasing public debate on gender issues. Gender mainstreaming into national, regional and international policies and programmes, as well as the provision of adequate resources for implementation as spelt out in the Beijing Platform for Action, represents one of the crucial strategies for attaining gender equity and equality. But in the final analysis, the critical step in protecting women’s rights is to empower women through education and increased awareness of their rights. In this connection, let me express my delegation’s appreciation for the adoption of an optional protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) which, among others, recognizes the competence of CEDAW to receive and consider communications submitted by or on behalf of individuals or groups of individuals, under the jurisdiction of a State Party, claiming to be victims of a violation of any of the rights set forth in the Convention by the State Party. We are happy that after so many years, women now have an effective instrument in their hands to fight discrimination, and we urge the adoption of the draft optional protocol to the Convention. This year, we also commemorate the tenth anniversary of the adoption by this Assembly of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, by which all Member States pledged to promote and protect the rights of children. Despite the Convention, however, the rights of children continue to be violated through child labour, commercial sex, exploitation, early marriage and the use of children in armed conflicts. This situation indicates that mere ratification of the Convention is not enough. Children would be protected and their rights promoted only by a conscious effort on the part of Governments to effectively implement the provisions of the Convention. The United Nations and other international organizations are justifiably preoccupied with governance because it is the basis of all progress. The United Nations must therefore play a fundamental and central role in the re-design of global governance and in global governance itself. It cannot do so, however, when it is constantly requested to do more for all people while it is being given less and less resources. It will certainly lack the institutional framework for global leadership when national leaders fail to stand up for it or its enduring values. Given the onerous responsibilities of the Organization and the expectations of the Member States, the timely, full and unconditional payment of assessed contributions would be an expression of our commitment and support as the Organization prepares to meet the emerging challenges of the twenty-first century. In this connection, it is our firm conviction that the regular and peacekeeping budgets of the Organization should be determined solely by the General Assembly in accordance with each country’s ability to pay, among other factors, as objectively evaluated within the Organization. Unilateral decisions that worsen the financial situation of the United Nations must be avoided. We have an opportunity to draw lessons from our immediate past history and to shape a new millennium in our best image, just as the great statesmen of this century did in the aftermath of the Second World War. We would not be true to ourselves if we sought refuge in half measures. We must use our best endeavours to build a new world for a new millennium we can be proud of. Our collective wisdom demands this. Our civilized values insist on this. We can do no less.   Allow me at the outset to extend to Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab the sincere congratulations of my delegation on his election to the presidency of this session. We are confident that his well- known experience and abilities will lead this session to a successful conclusion. We assure him of the full cooperation of our delegation to achieve that objective. We also wish to express our appreciation to his predecessor for his valuable efforts, which led to the success of the previous session. By the same token, our appreciation also goes to Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary- General of the United Nations, for his efforts at the helm of the Organization. I also wish to welcome our newest Members — the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. Mr. President, heeding your appeal to be very brief, I will not touch on all the points detailed in my statement before the Assembly, and I ask that the edited version be placed on record. Since I last spoke before the Assembly one year ago, the Sudan has witnessed numerous developments in the political, economic and social fields. A permanent constitution was endorsed by an overwhelming majority of the people in a popular and free referendum. This constitution guarantees for the Sudanese people all political and civil freedoms and rights, including the right 27 to form political parties and social and cultural organizations. Despite the difficulties faced by Sudan, as a result of both the war and natural disasters, it has been able, through its own efforts, to restructure its economy to meet the requirements of the free market. All this took place in the near-total absence of foreign aid. The Sudan has also started to exploit its natural resources, both agricultural and mineral, in particular oil, which we started exporting on 30 August last. Oil revenues will contribute to strengthening national efforts for socio-economic development. In the economic field, these endeavours have contributed to reversing a number of the short-term negative effects of the economic liberalization policies. These reform measures have so far helped to achieve an 8 per cent total growth rate and to reduce the rate of inflation to 13 per cent, and have led the International Monetary Fund to commend this remarkable achievement. In order to alleviate the economic burdens resulting from economic reform policies, our Government has adopted a number of measures to assist the more vulnerable groups and low- income citizens through social assistance funds, the provision of “soft” loans and the establishment of small productive projects for youth and women. In the search for peace in southern Sudan, the Government accepted the Declaration of Principles as a basis for its negotiations with the rebels within the framework of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD). It also declared a partial ceasefire, as it had repeatedly done, in order to ensure the delivery of relief assistance to its citizens affected by the war. Subsequently, we came to the conclusion that the most effective way to show our seriousness about arriving at a genuine and lasting solution to this humanitarian tragedy was to ensure the cessation of all hostilities. The Government therefore took its recent initiative to establish a general and comprehensive ceasefire while continuing the negotiations through IGAD, with the assistance of our IGAD partners. However, those efforts by my Government were met by prevarication and were not taken seriously by the other side. The failure of the rebel movement to accept a comprehensive ceasefire is proof of its lack of interest and seriousness in searching for a solution to the problem, which has enriched its leaders at the expense of the Sudanese people in general and of our southern citizens in particular. The Sudan looks forward to a more effective role by IGAD, the partners of IGAD and the Egyptian and Libyan conciliation initiative, in support of the peace efforts. The call for a comprehensive ceasefire has also been endorsed by the United Nations and the international community. We are grateful for and appreciate that support. Yet the process needs to be given further impetus and support if an environment conducive to the establishment of peace is to be created and all the obstacles in its way are to be removed. In this context, we call upon the international community to take punitive measures against the rebel Garang similar to those taken against Savimbi in Angola, in order to persuade him to join the peace effort. We also call for continued support for the Government initiative aimed at achieving a comprehensive ceasefire, through bringing pressure to bear on the rebel movement to accept that initiative and to show some seriousness in the negotiations in order to find a solution to the problem. Furthermore, demands must continue to be made for the handing over of the remains of the four relief workers murdered by the movement last April. With regard to the practices of the rebel movement, I should like to speak about developments in the humanitarian situation, which continues to deteriorate in the south of the country despite relative improvements in Bahr el-Ghazal and other areas. From this rostrum, I would like to express our thanks and appreciation to the countries and organizations that continue to provide relief and humanitarian assistance to those affected in the Sudan, whether directly or through Operation Lifeline Sudan. We believe that there is a need for the gradual transition from relief to development in the areas that enjoy stability, security and peace now that the Khartoum peace agreement and the Fashoda accord have been signed. We call upon the donor countries and organizations to make contributions to the consolidated appeal for the Sudan for 1999, in view of the noticeable decline in its resources, which last June amounted to only 31 per cent of requirements. We also emphasize that it is important not to allow political posturing to get in the way of humanitarian and relief work. There is also a need to avoid selectivity in dealing with humanitarian issues, which affect the lives of peoples and individuals. The Sudan would like to inform the Assembly of its full commitment to a general and comprehensive ceasefire throughout southern Sudan for humanitarian reasons and as a means of paving the way for peace negotiations. We hope that the other party will respond positively so that 28 we can begin to take practical steps to disengage the forces and monitor the ceasefire. The Government will allocate a large part of its oil revenues for humanitarian and development needs in the south. It will also allocate part of this year's grain harvest for distribution by United Nations agencies to the needy population in the south. The war has continued for a long time, and we appreciate the role played by the international community in extending humanitarian assistance. That situation cannot go on forever; the one and only solution to the crisis is a peaceful one. The conflicts in Africa have brought untold suffering and hardships, to the peoples of the continent. One of the greatest problems is that of the more than 8 million refugees who live under extremely difficult circumstances. In its search to put an end to the suffering of the refugees and to find radical solutions to the problem, the Organization of African Unity (OAU) decided to convene the first ministerial meeting of the committee on refugees and internally displaced persons. That important meeting was held last December in Khartoum with the active participation of the sisterly African States, the relevant United Nations bodies, the regional organizations concerned, the International Committee of the Red Cross and other non-governmental organizations. The meeting adopted the Khartoum Declaration, which contained an assessment of the problems facing refugees and displaced persons with a view to addressing the underlying causes of these problems and to establishing favourable conditions for the restoration of peace and stability in order to encourage the voluntary return of refugees and internally displaced persons to their homes in safety and dignity. From this rostrum, we appeal to the international community and the relevant organizations to continue to provide support for the States affected by these problems so as to ensure the prompt and effective implementation of the Khartoum Declaration and its recommendations with regard to refugees and internally displaced persons. We call for the renunciation of selectivity in dealing with the question of humanitarian assistance, human rights and democracy at the international level. We also appeal to States to avoid politicizing these questions and using them as a pretext for interference in the internal affairs of others. We are eager to see those lofty principles applied effectively while preserving the principle of the sovereignty, security and territorial integrity of States. In this context, we should like to draw attention to the cooperation of the Government of the Sudan with the United Nations in the delivery of relief assistance to the affected population in the south, as well as to the recent visit of the United Nations mission to the Nuba Mountain region to assess the humanitarian needs there. In his report on the work of the Organization and his opening statement before this session, the Secretary-General reflected the international concern about the expansion and intensification of civil wars and other conflicts in various regions and the human tragedies and physical and economic destruction that result from such wars. We share the Secretary-General's concern on this matter. We reaffirm the importance of maximizing collective efforts to eliminate the causes of conflicts before they erupt and of using all available means to put an end to them. We believe, however, that any actions taken or means used must have the consent and agreement of the State concerned and must be within the framework of international laws and standards, particularly those of the United Nations Charter. In the absence of a transparent, democratic and just international order, moving outside that framework and calling for interference in the internal affairs of States will only lead to chaos and the hegemony of the powerful over the weak. President Abdelaziz Bouteflika, the current Chairman of the OAU, summed up the fears and concerns of the small and weak States in this regard by saying that we remain very sensitive to any encroachment on our sovereignty, not only because it constitutes our last line of defence against the laws of an unjust world but because we do not participate effectively in the decision-making process in the Security Council or in the monitoring of the implementation of these decisions. Modern history is full of examples of such unjust interpretation and application of laws and resolutions. I would like to highlight just one example: the unjust and unjustified attack by the United States on the al-Shifa pharmaceutical factory and the inability of the Security Council to take a decision on Sudan's request to send a mission to investigate the American allegations concerning the factory. The ideas put forward by the Secretary-General in his report require further consultations and consideration by the General Assembly and other United Nations bodies, with the participation of all Member States and within the framework of the Charter and international laws and norms. 29 Undoubtedly, the continued imbalance in international relations has strengthened the trend towards unilateral supremacy and double standards. This imbalance has had negative effects on international peace, security and stability. It has also created an unhealthy atmosphere which promotes the interests of certain States while ignoring, indeed belittling, the interests and rights of the weaker members of the international community. Hence, the Sudan has always supported the call for the establishment of a balanced and diverse international order, an order that respects the specific religious, historical and cultural characteristics of peoples and that protects their natural right to choose their own social, economic and political systems in harmony with their cultural attributes. The fact that the Sudan is being targeted by the United States Administration is not open to question. Indeed, the United States Administration itself does not deny this. It has taken many measures aimed at destabilizing Sudan and its security, and has pursued a declared policy of isolating the Sudan through the provision of military assistance to some of its neighbours. It has consistently voted against the Sudan in the international financial institutions and has sponsored resolutions condemning and denouncing the Sudan at the United Nations and its specialized agencies. It has also attempted to smear the Sudan’s image in the international arena. It has made baseless accusations against the Sudan, charging it with involvement in international terrorism and placing its name on its list of what it calls States sponsoring terrorism. Furthermore, the United States Administration imposed unilateral economic sanctions on the Sudan despite the international community’s clear and declared position on such coercive economic measures. All these actions have been taken by the United States on the basis of totally false and unfounded allegations and accusations. The United States Administration has never been able to produce a single piece of evidence to prove its allegations. The unjust United States actions and accusations against the Sudan culminated last year in the bombing and destruction of the Al-Shifa pharmaceutical factory in Khartoum. A whole year has elapsed since I addressed the General Assembly from this rostrum about the flagrant aggression by the United States of America against that factory, which was privately owned and financed by the bank of the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA). Has any action been taken since the Sudan explained to the international community the enormity of the mistake perpetrated by the United States against the Sudanese people, depriving them of a main source of medication for their innocent children and for the many refugees and displaced persons that are given shelter by the Sudan? The Sudan continues to demand and to expect justice and redress from the Security Council as the organ with the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. Immediately after the bombing of the factory last August, Sudan requested the Security Council to send a mission to ascertain the facts regarding the factory’s ownership and output, and to verify the allegations invoked by the United States to attempt to justify its aggression. The non-aligned countries, the Arab Group, the African Group and the members of the Organization of the Islamic Conference all wrote letters to the Security Council supporting the Sudan’s request. Most regrettably, the Council remained unable to act. The United States prevented the Council from discharging its most basic duty in this regard, namely to investigate the allegations that the United States used to try to justify its armed aggression. Since I addressed the Assembly last year, dozens of articles and reports have been published in major United States newspapers. Numerous statements have been made by United States congressional officials and former Central Intelligence Agency experts, along with a number of academic studies by specialized institutes in the United States and other countries, all of which affirm that the Al- Shifa factory was a pharmaceutical factory producing human and veterinary medicines. They also affirm that the United States made a terrible mistake by destroying that factory, which had links to the United Nations: the Security Council had authorized the factory to export medicines to Iraq within the framework of the oil-for-food programme. The Sudan referred all these studies, articles and declarations to the Security Council. This year, the owner of the factory hired some of the best known United States experts in the field of chemical weapons to examine the factory and ascertain the truth about its output. The experts took samples, which were examined in the most sophisticated and advanced laboratories in Europe and the United States. The conclusion was that the factory produced nothing other than medications for human and veterinary use. The Sudan also formed its own specialized scientific committee composed of university professors in the Sudan to examine the factory. The committee issued a report affirming once again that the United States allegations about the factory had no logical or scientific basis. A most important development then followed: a decision by the United States Departments of Justice and of the Treasury to unfreeze the assets of the owner of the 30 factory in the United States. That reaffirms that the justifications put forward by the United States for the bombing of the Al-Shifa factory were baseless. There is no physical evidence to prove them. Rather, they were based on misleading intelligence information. The United States allegations that the factory is owned by terrorist groups are also baseless and lack any supporting evidence or proof. The United States decision to unfreeze the assets of the factory’s owner came after the United States Administration ascertained that he had no connection with terrorism. This in itself is clear and irrefutable proof of what Sudan has been saying before the international community all along. When the matter was put before the Security Council last year and when the Sudan requested the dispatch of a fact-finding mission, the United States objected on the pretext that it would settle the question bilaterally with the Sudan. A whole year has elapsed and all we have received is more procrastination. This led me last August to send another letter to the President of the Security Council asking him again to dispatch a fact-finding mission. We appeal to the United Nations, as it represents all countries, big and small, to prove its impartiality and objectivity; we appeal to the Security Council to send a mission to uncover the facts about the destruction of the Al-Shifa pharmaceutical factory. The United Nations should request the United States not to object to the dispatch of such mission if it is confident of the information and the causes that led it to bomb the factory. The bombing of the pharmaceutical factory took the lives of a number of Sudanese. It deprived hundreds of workers of their livelihood. It also deprived the Sudanese people and the refugees from neighbouring countries of their main source of medication and vaccines. All this makes the international community wonder about the sincerity of the United States commitment to human rights. In their 1998 and 1999 ministerial declarations, the Group of 77 and China called for applying justice in this case in accordance with the United Nations Charter and international law. This act of aggression was a unilateral act unacceptable to the international community. The Movement of Non-Aligned Countries condemned this act at its Durban Summit and at subsequent ministerial meetings. Persisting in targeting the Sudan, the United States Administration recently appointed a special envoy for the Sudan with specific objectives and terms of reference. Sudan was not party to the choice of that envoy or to the definition of the objectives and terms of reference of his mission. Clearly, the way in which the United States Administration chose this envoy reflects a condescending attitude and is an act of cultural arrogance inconsistent with the spirit of the United Nations Charter, which governs relations between States. At the time when the United States claims to be concerned with the problems of the Sudan, we find that it has blocked, to a large degree, all channels of bilateral contact. When announcing the appointment of the special envoy, the United States spokesman affirmed that his mandate would not include the bilateral aspect of relations between the two countries. Here we would like to pose a question: how could a State appoint an envoy to another State without having his task include their bilateral relations? This is indeed bizarre, since the basic disagreements between us and the United States are of a bilateral nature. Such disagreements led the United States to use force to destroy a pharmaceutical factory, and then it refused international arbitration in the matter. It is also bizarre that the United States Administration has given its envoy to the Sudan the task of dealing with the questions of relief, human rights and peace in the southern Sudan. I say this is bizarre because these questions are dealt with either in the United Nations or at the regional level. The first question, relief, and the second, human rights, are dealt with in the relevant organs of the United Nations, respectively, the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs and the Commission on Human Rights. The issue of peace in the southern Sudan is being dealt with at the regional level by the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), with the support of the Organization of African Unity, the United Nations and the group of IGAD partners, of which the United States is a member. The Sudan will continue to follow closely the steps taken by the United States Administration and will take the necessary measures to protect its national interests. Here I would like to reaffirm that the Government of the Sudan is willing to settle its differences with the United States of America through dialogue and the initiatives already taken in this regard, with a view to breaking the stalemate. This interest continues even after the cruel American aggression against the Al-Shifa pharmaceutical factory. Yet this interest of ours must be met with an objective response by the other party. Hence, we call upon the United Nations and peace-loving countries to urge the United States Administration to take positive steps towards the normalization of relations with the Sudan and to desist from interference in its internal affairs, which only results in prolonging the civil war and death and suffering for the Sudanese people. 31 The Sudan believes that the United States, as a great Power concerned with world and regional peace, could play an important role in the settlement of the Sudan’s problems. But for the United States to play that role, we demand that it show neutrality and desist from injustice and aggression. The delegation of the Sudan is of the view that the Millennium Assembly, in which all world leaders will participate, is an important occasion for the United Nations to enhance its role and its neutrality. In this regard, we propose that the Millennium Summit declaration contain the following: a reaffirmation of the importance of peaceful coexistence; respect for plurality and diversity and the promotion of dialogue between various cultures and religions; a reaffirmation of the need to achieve security and stability by resorting to the United Nations for the settlement of conflicts between States; a reaffirmation of the need to coordinate international efforts for the achievement of development and the eradication of poverty; and a reaffirmation of the resolve of the international community to combat terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. In this regard, we would like to state our understanding that the adoption of a declaration by the Millennium Summit will not detract from the United Nations Charter, which embodies lofty and noble principles valid for all time. In conclusion, most of the people of the Sudan are adherents of Islam and Christianity. Thus, the Sudan has a rich legacy of tolerance and coexistence between religions and cultures. Christianity, the religion of Jesus Christ — peace be upon him — teaches fraternity, tolerance and succour for the weak. Islam, the last of the revealed religions, has brought an integrated way of life that upholds the value of freedom and thought. It also consecrates the principle of coexistence between religions and cultures. The Holy Koran states, “Invite (all) to the Way Of thy Lord with wisdom And beautiful preaching; And argue with them In ways that are best And most gracious.” (The Holy Koran, XVI:125).   Let me first associate myself with the statement of my colleague, the Finnish Minister for Foreign Affairs, on behalf of the European Union. Let me also, Mr. President, congratulate you on your election. Denmark's relations with Namibia and with you personally go back to long before your country's independence. I am therefore particularly gratified to see you in this position. In my statement today, I should like to dwell upon the responsibility of the international community, including, of course, the United Nations, for human security and development. We live in an ever more globalized world. Almost every day we are confronted with new challenges that must be met. Distance or ignorance of events no longer provides a sense of security. Close international cooperation is needed to meet the challenges. But paradoxically, although the challenges are global, policy-making and institutions still remain predominantly national in focus and scope. Increasingly we see internal conflicts and blatant violations of human rights and humanitarian law pose a special and serious kind of threat. Terrorism, drug- trafficking and international crime also thrive in a globalized world. The international community must possess the means and display the resolve to confront such challenges. Our fundamental concerns about human security and human development cannot be met only in a domestic context. I should like to illustrate these concerns, first, in relation to the Kosovo and East Timor crises and, secondly, with regard to international development cooperation. Kosovo and East Timor raised serious questions with regard to the classic concepts of State sovereignty, the respect for human rights and the non-use of force in international relations. How do these concepts interrelate? How do they relate to our concern for human security? And what does the interrelationship mean for the role and responsibility of the United Nations and for the Security Council? The first point to be made is that the international community cannot be idle in the face of gross and systematic violations of human rights. Nor can we stand idly by if the United Nations and its representatives, who have assisted a people in exercising its right to self- determination, are trampled on. International law finds itself at a crossroads. We have spent the last 50 years developing an impressive body of human rights law, applicable in time of peace as well as during armed conflict, starting with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Indeed, there is no shortage of rules. What is lacking is effective implementation of existing rules, in the very last resort through the use of force. We must now aim at enforcement in order to provide assistance, regardless of frontiers, to the victims of human rights violations. We must show resolve in promoting respect for the rule of law and for the institutions called upon to uphold the rule of law. A broad spectrum of actions is available; the choice of action must depend on the problem we face. The thorny question is whether and when to use military force in the face of an emerging humanitarian catastrophe, such as a planned ethnic cleansing or downright genocide. It cannot be emphasized too often that a negotiated settlement must remain the primary and ultimate goal of any conflict solution. If, however, all attempts at securing a peaceful solution fail or are brushed aside, the question of whether to use force in one form or another arises. This brings the United Nations Security Council to the forefront. The Council has the primary responsibility for maintaining international peace and security. It has carried out its functions as foreseen in the United Nations Charter in a much more effective and innovative way since the end of the cold war. I am referring, in particular, to the conflicts in relation to Iraq, Bosnia, Haiti, and Albania. A main challenge for the Security Council remains that of reacting effectively against gross and systematic violations of human rights conducted against an entire population. 36 The Council has interpreted its competence under Chapter VII of the Charter to cover humanitarian situations that shock the conscience of mankind. This augurs well for the victims of brutal oppression and ill for the dictators of today. Oppressors of whole peoples, mass murderers and ethnic cleansers can no longer invoke the shield of national sovereignty. Nor can they expect impunity. The international community has a responsibility to act in the face of a humanitarian tragedy such as the one we witnessed in Kosovo and the one we are witnessing in East Timor. Unfortunately, the Council was not able to live up to its responsibilities concerning the ethnic cleansing in Kosovo. Should the paralysis of the Council lead to blind acceptance? No; the international community could not stand idly by and watch, while the principle of State sovereignty was misused in Kosovo to violate international humanitarian law. In this serious situation the decision to launch the North Atlantic Treaty Organization campaign was legitimate and justified. It opened the way to a political solution, bringing the United Nations back into a central role. In East Timor we were faced with widespread, organized atrocities against a civilian population exercising its right to self-determination. In addition, the risk of total disregard for the United Nations was looming. Fortunately, the Security Council was not paralysed. Pressure from the international community brought about action. An agreement was reached to deploy a multinational force. We welcome this development. We urge the Indonesian Government to cooperate fully with the multinational force. In the meantime, the Indonesian Government remains responsible for the security of the population. It must make it possible for the humanitarian organizations to provide assistance for the large number of displaced persons in East Timor. We all share the responsibility for enabling the international community to address these issues and for enabling the United Nations to act. Where force has to be resorted to, we have to look to countries possessing that capability. In practical terms, this means that we often have to rely upon countries and organizations in the region. The Security Council must do its utmost to live up to its primary responsibility for the maintenance of peace, security and humanitarian decency — a primary responsibility that all the Member States have vested in the Security Council in accordance with Article 24 of the Charter. The Council's permanent members should apply the veto only in matters of vital importance, taking into account their unique responsibility for the interests of the United Nations as a whole. And they should state on what grounds they consider such a situation to be present. The Secretary-General has said, “any armed intervention is itself a result of the failure of prevention”. (A/54/PV.4) I agree with the Secretary-General that conflict prevention and resolution must be given the highest possible priority in international relations. It should be carried out on the basis of a common resolve to secure human rights for all. The United Nations constitutes a needed and valuable tool to this end. Conflict resolution must, of course, not become only a question of the use of force. Let me point to two important aspects of the post-conflict situation. First, those who are responsible for war crimes and crimes against humanity must be brought to justice. The creation of the ad hoc tribunals for the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda were important first steps towards establishing an effective international legal order based upon democratic values and the rule of law. The work of the tribunals has underlined the need for a permanent international criminal court designed to bring to justice those who have committed crimes of the most heinous kind. The prospects for lasting peace and reconciliation are severely undermined if war criminals and the like remain at large. The historic adoption last year in Rome of a statute for a permanent international criminal court is a landmark contribution to restoring the rule of law and ending impunity. Although not perfect, the Rome Statute provides a satisfactory basis for an effective and credible court. We urge all States to ratify the Statute as early as possible in order to put this historic building block in place. Denmark intends to ratify in the spring of the year 2000. Secondly, post-conflict assistance must be provided to the societies split by civil strife or war. Denmark is ready to do its part. With respect to the western Balkans, we initially provided assistance to refugees and for their safe return. Now we are gradually turning to assistance in 37 reconstruction and rebuilding of both physical and social infrastructure. A plan of action for Denmark's support in this respect has been drawn up. The plan expects Danish funds in the order of $100 million dollars to be used in the region in 1999 and around $120 million dollars in the year 2000. The reconstruction of Kosovo is important. It includes the establishment of a well-functioning civil administration. The United Nations family and many non-governmental organizations are undertaking important tasks which deserve our full support. All parties must strive to heal the wounds of conflict. International relations and international cooperation are not based on a one-issue agenda. Certain issues may grab and almost monopolize the headlines for a while. In Europe we have to deal with the Balkans. But we must not neglect the other important issues on the international agenda, in particular international development cooperation and the struggle for the eradication of poverty. In a world where a third of the population of developing countries earns less than $1 per day, where 30 per cent of all children under five in those countries are underweight, where 14 per cent of the population will not attain the age of 40, where financial crisis has led to a major setback in poverty reduction — in such a world development cooperation must remain an integral part of the effort of the international community to promote and protect human security and human development. The international community must acknowledge its share of the responsibility for making the opportunities of globalization available to all. Globalization must not become identical with protected and selective prosperity. Eradication of poverty is an essential goal in its own right. Furthermore, poverty is an important cause of conflict. And again, violent conflict may undo the results of decades of development. Development cooperation, therefore, constitutes an effective crisis-prevention effort for the long term. International development cooperation must be based on the fulfilment as soon as possible of the agreed target of 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product for official development assistance and on implementing the decisions of the big United Nations conferences of recent years with regard to human and social development, eradication of poverty, sustainable development and gender equality. The follow-up conferences to the Beijing conference and, in the year 2000, to the Copenhagen summit are important events requiring our full attention. Denmark stands by these commitments. We will continue our policy of contributing 1 per cent of our gross national product to official development assistance. Poverty reduction is the prime goal of our development cooperation programmes. In addition, we are providing funding to help address global problems in the field of the environment as well as peacekeeping and conflict prevention. These grants will grow in the coming years, reaching half of 1 per cent of gross domestic product by the year 2005, thus bringing Denmark's total contribution to international assistance to 1.5 per cent of gross domestic product. Creating an enabling environment for development is a challenge, first of all for developing countries themselves. Reforms cannot be imposed from the outside. If they are to succeed, local ownership and local roots are essential. Official development assistance has an essential role to play in helping the poorest countries, particularly in Africa. Official development assistance also assists in building up the sectors that do not attract private investment: health, education, the social sectors and capacity-building in general. In this way, countries may also, eventually, become able to attract private investment and to avail themselves of the opportunities of international trade. In this context, it is deplorable to see official development assistance reaching its lowest point ever. Honouring the commitments of official development assistance entered into internationally by industrialized countries has become a question of credibility. It is also a question of the effectiveness of the multilateral system. The United Nations system cannot perform the tasks we ask of it if we deny it the necessary means. The downward trend of official development assistance must be reversed and a higher share should be multilateral. Many poor countries are crippled with debt hampering their development. We therefore welcome the proposals to improve the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt (HIPC) Initiative. We are, however, disappointed by the lack of progress in financing the Initiative. We appeal to the major donor countries to live up to their responsibilities following the debt declaration of the Cologne summit. Besides aid, not instead of aid, developing countries need trade. In the forthcoming new global trade round, 38 every effort must be made to ensure better market access for developing countries and to enhance their real capacity to take part in international trade. The pursuit of human security and human development are not two independent paths. They are interrelated. Without economic and social development, it makes no sense to talk about human security. Where security does not exist, there will be no sustainable development. When violent conflict erupts, the results of decades of development may be undone in a very short time. We must uphold the importance of both concerns and we must emphasize that they are a national as well as an international responsibility. We thus face a major challenge at the threshold of the next millennium — a challenge we should give proper attention to at the Millennium Assembly next year. Allow me at the outset to congratulate you warmly, Mr. President, on your well-deserved election and to assure you of the delegation of Monaco's full cooperation in assisting you in the discharge of your lofty mandate. Your role in your country's exemplary struggle for independence and for the dignity of the Namibian people are deeply meaningful for us. I should like also to thank the members of the General Assembly for entrusting to my country one of the vice- presidencies of this fifty-fourth session, at the same time as Monaco is commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of the accession of His Most Serene Highness Prince Rainier III — my father. I wish to assure the Assembly that the delegation of Monaco will strive to be worthy of this honour and to work closely with the other members of the Bureau — whom I congratulate on their election — and the members of the Assembly, to ensure that this session, the last of the century, produces effective, concrete and tangible results. I avail myself of this opportunity to thank also Mr. Didier Opertti, President of the fifty-third session of the General Assembly, for his dedication and accessibility and for the competence and diplomatic skill with which he guided our work. I should like also to congratulate and warmly welcome the three new States Members of the United Nations — the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. The Government and people of Monaco are particularly pleased to greet these three countries of the Pacific, with which we share a number of concerns about the protection of the oceans and seas. We assure them of our readiness to enter into and develop a solid and fruitful cooperation with them. Finally, I should like most sincerely to express my satisfaction, as many have already done from this rostrum, at the resumption of the peace process in the Middle East and the immense hopes to which it has given rise. Since the general debate of the previous session, many distressing events have unfolded, some of which have had serious consequences that will last for years. The conflict in Kosovo, with the thousands of refugees and the massive suffering that it caused, was one of the most obvious. The whole of the United Nations system was mobilized, in a way that has certainly never happened before, to assemble the resources required to come to the aid of the populations in distress. The armed intervention and the decisive role played by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia at The Hague, brought to bear in defence of the principles of humanity and human rights, seem to foreshadow a strengthened determination on the part of the international community to enforce respect for the fundamental values of justice and human dignity that inspired the San Francisco Charter. We offer our sincere encouragement to the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo as it strives, despite the major difficulties in its way, to implement the provisions of Security Council resolution 1244 (1999). We wish courage, perseverance and success to the men and women responsible for carrying out that noble mandate of ensuring security, extinguishing the flames of hate and restoring good-neighbourly relations among the communities. 12 I should also like to emphasize the crucial role played by the United Nations in holding the election on self- determination in East Timor and in the protection operation that our Organization has recently launched to come to the aid of the civilian population there. We are following developments on the ground extremely carefully, and we hope that implementation of Security Council resolution 1264 (1999) will proceed without hindrance or delay. In this context, we should recall the very enlightening debate held by the Security Council on 12 February on the issue of the protection of civilians in armed conflict, during which the subject of internal conflicts, which have now become more numerous than those between States, was discussed at length. It was recalled that such conflicts fall under the purview of the 1949 Geneva Conventions, whose fiftieth anniversary we have just commemorated, especially the provisions of the Fourth Convention. Article 3, which is common to all four instruments, imposes rules of conduct that are binding on the High-Contracting Parties, whatever the circumstances and nature of the conflict. That article categorically prohibits any kind of attack on the life and physical and moral integrity of the person, as well as the passing of sentences and the carrying out of executions without previous judgement or indispensable judicial guarantees. On 16 and 17 September, a further debate took place in the Security Council on the same issue, the positive result of which was the adoption of resolution 1265 (1999), which makes considerable demands on both States and the international community as a whole. It stresses in particular that it is incumbent on States to put and end to impunity and to prosecute those responsible for genocide, crimes against humanity and serious violations of international humanitarian law. The Principality of Monaco unreservedly endorses these recommendations, which we consider to be extremely important. We have very high hopes for the establishment of the International Criminal Court as a means of better preventing war crimes and crimes against humanity. The Principality of Monaco was one of the first signatories of the Statute, which was adopted last year. In Kosovo, in East Timor and in conflicts that are often forgotten or that receive no recognition, particularly those in Africa, it is the weakest and the most vulnerable, particularly children, who suffer most. With the tenth anniversary of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child taking place on 20 November, it is up to us now more than ever to see to it that children, in peace as well as in war, are strictly protected from all forms of violence and subjugation. Following on from the presidential statement of June 1998, Security Council resolution 1261 (1999), adopted on 25 August, will, we hope, make a decisive contribution to resolving the distressing problem of the fate of children in times of armed conflict. My country, which is committed to that end, has been host to a number of international non-governmental organizations dedicated to the protection of children. These associations are working hand in hand with the United Nations specialized agencies. For its part, the Principality of Monaco is actively contributing on a regular basis to steps taken to improve the lot of the most disadvantaged children. Just as children need to be protected, women, too, deserve the keenest attention from the international community. Many forms of discrimination and injustice — indeed, cruelty — including genital mutilation, which is the cause of much pain and humiliation, are still too often tolerated. They represent a number of obstacles to women's achieving their full potential. In a report recently submitted to the Subcommission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights, a non-governmental organization known for its competence and precision denounced the unacceptable treatment still being endured by women in many countries, be they young girls, wives or mothers. I should like in this connection to emphasize the high regard in which we held the high-level debate that took place in the Economic and Social Council last July on the role of jobs and work in the elimination of poverty, emphasizing in particular the advancement of women. Women's access to jobs, as well as to education and professional training, has been widely encouraged. It is one of the areas of concern of the Government of the Principality, which is taking specific measures in the social and educational fields in order to deal with the issue. Respect for equality between men and women in daily life, as well as in the development of their professional careers, in both public and private sectors, is essential if we are to improve the situation of women and combat the precariousness and poverty that often affect them much more than men. We are particularly aware of that. The substantial involvement of women in political and economic decision-making can also contribute to ensuring greater social justice, while stimulating and balancing the economy. The authorities of my country are convinced of this and are striving to take steps to adjust 13 and complete the legislation of Monaco so as to ensure that in every respect it is in conformity with the requirements of the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, so that Monaco can soon become a party to that essential instrument. Because of the complexity and irrevocably globalized nature of today's economy, it has become necessary, now more than ever, to achieve greater balance at both the national and international levels. Existing inequalities, whatever their origin, must necessarily be reduced to make sure that the dangerous gap separating the industrialized countries from the most disadvantaged countries does not grow wider. The Ministers of Economics and Finance of 44 States and Governments members of the International Organization of La Francophonie were able to devote themselves to that subject during their first meeting, which took place in Monaco on 14 and 15 April last. Those leaders, like those who met in Geneva at the July substantive session of the Economic and Social Council, recognized that globalization, if poorly controlled, could have serious consequences for the future of all nations. Stepped up trade and investment, and the adoption of policies of liberalization — sure engines of growth — have not yet enabled everyone to enjoy significant development. We must guard against some being barred from progress and from the benefits of the major trends in the world economy, something that could have serious consequences. Aware of that danger and of the deterioration in international relations it could cause, ministers of the economy or of finance of Francophone countries, meeting in Monaco, recognized the need for better supervision of the human and social effects of ongoing economic processes, including structural adjustment policies. They stressed the importance of maintaining, or indeed increasing, official development assistance, while adopting appropriate measures to encourage private investment. They indicated their grave concern at the unbearable burden of external debt for many countries. The Government of Monaco shares that grave concern. The Monaco Declaration issued at the end of their meeting by ministers of the economy or of finance of Francophone countries solemnly recalled the fundamental link among economic development, democracy and good governance. The Declaration stressed the importance of upcoming multilateral trade negotiations, noted the mission of the World Trade Organization to encompass all members of the international community, and stressed the importance of improving the international trading system so that it will make a greater contribution to sustainable development and to meeting the real expectations of peoples. It also invited the world financial community to maintain its assistance to development, through both official and private contributions. The Principality of Monaco, which joined the Intergovernmental Agency of La Francophonie in organizing this first meeting, is committed to contribute actively to implementing the Monaco Declaration and to encourage the establishment of a permanent Francophone centre for gathering and exchanging economic information; the recent summit of heads of State or Government of Francophone countries, held at Moncton, Canada, from 3 to 5 September, agreed to establish such a centre in Monaco. Supported by many world leaders, the Jubilee 2000 campaign to cancel debts that the poorest countries are finding it difficult to repay enjoys wide backing. Given certain modifications, it seems to us to be of great interest, if only because it will enable countries experiencing great difficulties to resume unhindered progress towards development. Here, my country's leaders are duly appreciative of the decision taken at Cologne last June by the heads of State or Government of the seven major industrialized countries and of Russia to reduce significantly the external debt of some 40 such countries. I reaffirm Monaco's unswerving determination to meet its international obligations and its firm commitment to the values of human rights and humanitarian principles, and wish to affirm that the highest authorities of my country are devoting close attention to progress in the sphere of disarmament. The limitation and reduction of nuclear weapons is a constant concern of the Government of the Principality. In our view, universal ratification of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) — which, to our great satisfaction, was indefinitely extended in 1995 — should be promoted, as should the complete application of the comprehensive safeguards system of the International Atomic Energy Agency, whose remarkable International Laboratory of Marine Radioactivity we have been honoured to host since 1986. The year-2000 conference of States parties to the NPT will be decisive. Here, my country praises those countries, some of them close friends, that have made major sacrifices to dismantle a portion of their nuclear arsenals while taking great care with the processing of the fissile materials extracted from them. We unreservedly 14 share the view of Governments that favour the formulation and adoption of international rules to prohibit the production of fissile materials intended for the production of nuclear weapons and explosives. The Government of the Principality considers that controls intended to prevent transfers of materials and equipment that could be used for the manufacture of nuclear weapons should be strengthened, but it strongly favours improved international cooperation for the peaceful uses of nuclear energy — given, of course, all the necessary precautions with respect to environmental protection. The Principality of Monaco earnestly hopes for an early end to all nuclear-weapons tests; the threat that these weapons pose to mankind has often, and rightly, been denounced. We are convinced that the accession of all Powers to the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) — which my father, the reigning Prince, ratified on 20 November 1998 — would be a giant step towards limiting these dreadful weapons of mass destruction. As a party to the CTBT, the Principality would wish to see greater commitment to that important treaty. We welcome the existence of nuclear-weapon-free zones established on the basis of arrangements freely entered into by the States of various regions, and hope that strengthening confidence and international security will ultimately lead to the spread of such zones. Let me recall the keen interest of the Principality of Monaco in the implementation of the 1993 Paris Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction, to which my country has been a party since 1 June 1995, and of the 1972 Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and on Their Destruction, our instrument of accession to which was deposited on 30 April 1999. My country welcomes the measures adopted at Maputo, Mozambique, last May, at the first Meeting of States Parties to the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their Destruction, which entered into force in Monaco on 15 March 1999. Engaged from the very beginning in the fight against these deadly devices, which strike hardest at civilian populations, particularly the elderly, women and children, Monaco signed and quickly ratified this instrument. My country is fully determined to continue its efforts to contribute to eliminating these weapons once and for all. When, on 12 November 1998, the Principality of Monaco signed the International Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombing, it wanted to make a formal commitment and to place clearly on record its position in this regard. Through me, Monaco confirms that decision before the Assembly, once again condemning all forms of terrorism, which blindly and mercilessly strikes too many innocents, as we have had occasion once again to note recently. In this spirit, it is appropriate to pay a special tribute to the United Nations Mission in East Timor for the role it is playing and for the courage its representatives are displaying, notably the members of the international staff that remained in place under the gravest of threats. In this connection, I should like once again to forcefully reaffirm our complete solidarity with United Nations personnel, some of whom this year have lost their lives, been injured, or suffered violence and other grave offenses. Monaco, which was among the first countries to ratify the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel, deplores in the strongest terms and condemns without reserve the inadmissible acts of aggression and intimidation of which they have been victims. We take this opportunity to salute the first among United Nations personnel, the Secretary-General, who enjoys our highest esteem for his actions at the head of the Organization, particularly during periods of crisis and in the extremely difficult circumstances with which he is regularly confronted.   We are pleased to note that the annual sessions of the General Assembly are increasingly each year not only a special forum for discussing international affairs, but also and in particular an opportunity for the democratic expression of our shared experience, a time for each Member State of the Organization to freely state his or her views. In this context, Cameroon is particularly pleased that the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session has been assumed by a fraternal country, Namibia. We regard it as highly symbolic that this role, at this delicate time of a bridge between two centuries and two millenniums, has been entrusted to you, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, worthy representative of Namibia, the last State in Africa to recover its sovereignty. My country fully associates itself with the praise addressed to you and we assure you of our full support as you exercise your difficult and lofty duties. I hardly need recall that your country's attainment of independence, just like the end of apartheid in South Africa, demonstrates what the United Nations and the international community are capable of. Cameroon wishes also to reiterate its full appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, for the skill, devotion, effectiveness and open-mindedness he demonstrated throughout the fifty-third session. Finally, we wish to pay tribute to the Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his continuing work to consolidate peace and combat poverty, and for his special attention to the problems of the African continent and the poorest regions or those in crisis. His outstanding report on the work of the Organization illustrates again this year the intelligence and determination that are his constant guides as he performs his duties. The work of the Secretary- General, carried out with an acute sense of the common interest of all Member States, deserves our support. Cameroon welcomes the new Members of the Organization: Kiribati, Nauru and Tonga. Their admission reinforces the universality of our Organization. Despite great progress in many areas, this last decade of the twentieth century has been marked, and continues to be marked, by less positive events in the world. More than ever before, therefore, we need to react, act and even act preventively, constantly and vigorously, in order to rectify an inappropriate course of events. There are still too many conflicts. Too much human blood has been shed. Too many men and women have their fundamental rights and freedoms flouted. There is too much poverty, even destitution, which is in stark contrast to an unparalleled opulence: Too many inequalities and too much interference and domination persist in inter-State relations. This succession of dangers is accentuated by the problems of epidemics and illiteracy, and recalls the vital need for greater solidarity between prosperous countries and developing countries, given the growing globalization of economies and the universal need for peace, democracy, prosperity, justice, the guarantee of fundamental human rights and the effective sovereignty of States. Cameroon therefore welcomes recent positive steps on the path to peace. I refer to the Middle East, with the signing of the Israeli-Palestinian agreement in Egypt. The resolution of the Kosovo crisis, and particularly the establishment of an administration guaranteed by our Organization, also deserves recognition. Cameroon encourages all actors in the Balkans and the Middle East to continue to advance resolutely towards lasting normalization. We are also very mindful of developments in East Timor, and we hope very much that wisdom will prevail — that is, that everyone will respect the process initiated under United Nations auspices. We welcome the holding in Maputo, Mozambique, of the First Meeting of the States Parties to the Ottawa Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their Destruction. That meeting made it possible to continue the campaign to heighten the international community’s awareness of the need to ban these ghastly weapons for ever. These weapons continue, particularly in Africa, to indiscriminately mutilate children, women, the elderly, civilians and military personnel every day. Cameroon, in confirmation of its commitment to this great struggle, recently ratified the Convention. We welcome the results achieved in Sierra Leone, Guinea-Bissau and Northern Ireland. These and other advances cannot, however, make us forget either the deadly conflicts that continue to destroy lives or the threats of holocaust that persist because of the lack of significant progress in the field of nuclear disarmament. 19 In this overall context, which remains full of elements, the proliferation of hotbeds of tension and conflict in Africa, particularly in Central Africa, is a major source of concern for Cameroon. That particular situation deserves more attention from the international community than ever before. Unfortunately, as the Secretary-General notes in his report, these African crises, no matter how grave, have basically been ignored. Is it conceivable that Somalia, fragmented and disorganized, with its helpless, starving, sick people, and now bereft of any viable state structure, could be purely and simply forgotten, abandoned and allowed to perish? Could the situation in Somalia today not be the fate of other countries on our continent and elsewhere? Should the international community abdicate its duty of solidarity with and assistance to Western Sahara, to the Sudan or in the conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea? We deplore the continuing bloody destructive crisis in Angola. That disastrous civil war directly or indirectly destroys thousands of lives and systematically obliterates infrastructure every day; this, too, seems to have been forgotten by everyone. Since the withdrawal of the United Nations Observer Mission in Angola (MONUA), the States members of the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa, which for a year now has been chaired by Cameroon, is trying to do the impossible in order to prevent Angola from permanently locking itself up behind fratricidal closed doors in the face of this kind of widespread indifference. Together with some other regional and international diplomatic actors, the Standing Advisory Committee has also made many efforts to try to restore peace in Burundi, the Republic of the Congo, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda, particularly through the resolute dissemination of a culture of peace. In this respect, Cameroon and all States Members of the Committee welcome the peace accords on the Democratic Republic of the Congo signed in July in Lusaka, Zambia. This came as a result of the doggedness and tenacity of African mediators, and it proves, if any proof is needed, that Africa, with the support of the international community, is able to overcome its difficulties. We wish to reiterate the solemn appeal of the Standing Advisory Committee to all signatories of these accords to see to it that the peace process is carried through. Cameroon is convinced that their determination to consolidate peace will be supported by the international community, in particular through the speedy and effective establishment of the peacekeeping force that the United Nations is planning to deploy in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. No matter what the cost, we must eradicate wars and conflicts in Africa, particularly in Central Africa. We must halt the spiral of bloody confrontation and fighting in that subregion, which pits ethnic group blindly against ethnic group, political group against political group. It is not true that love of and devotion to one’s own people or faith in one’s own ideals must be proved by one’s hatred towards others. These grim tragedies, as we know, are not inevitable. Fundamentally, they are the result of practices to which Africa must put an end; otherwise, the continent will be for ever left out of humankind’s majestic march towards modernity. The diagnosis of the causes of this situation is already apparent: poverty, destitution, ignorance, the absence of good governance, the fragility of the nations and States concerned, and acts of interference of all kinds are at the heart of the problem. Together we can combat them and overcome them. This is why one of the priorities of Cameroon’s diplomacy, promoted by President Paul Biya, with the full endorsement of his peers, is to help guarantee peace, security, stability, democracy and prosperity for the 100 million women and men of Central Africa. This determination has guided our action as we head the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa. As we prepare to hand over the chairmanship to another fraternal country, we would like to recall the progress that member States have made together over the last 11 months in our quest to strengthen peace, security and stability in Central Africa. The most significant initiative undoubtedly was the threefold decision taken at the meetings in Yaoundé, on 25 February 1999, and in Malabo, on 24 June 1999, by 9 of the 11 heads of State of Central Africa, to establish the Council for Peace and Security in Central Africa (COPAX); to adopt the Yaoundé declaration on peace, security and stability in central Africa; and to integrate COPAX into the structures of the Economic Community of Central African States (ECCAS). Through this threefold decision, those heads of State have given our subregion a politico-diplomatic organ and ethical framework, as well as a code of conduct to meet the challenges of prevention, management and the lasting settlement of crises and 20 conflicts. The practical modalities for the functioning of COPAX are now being worked out in the secretariat of ECCAS. Since crisis and conflict prevention remain absolute priorities, the States of Central Africa have continued their efforts to establish an early warning mechanism. This structure has just acquired premises that serve as its headquarters in Libreville, Gabon. A number of other initiatives mark important progress for the establishment of peace and stability in Central Africa. I refer first to the decision taken in June at the Malabo summit by the heads of State of Central Africa to lend their prestige to the establishment of a subregional centre for the promotion of human rights and democracy. With the support of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, this centre will be both an observatory of realities and trends and a kind of think tank to produce recommendations on human rights and democracy. I wish, on behalf of the peoples of Central Africa, to welcome the encouragement shown by Mrs. Mary Robinson for this project, as well as the steps she has taken to follow up on the resolution adopted on this subject by the General Assembly at its fifty-third session. I also wish to refer to the establishment of a network of parliamentarians of Central Africa — an initiative that should lead to the establishment of a subregional parliament which will be both a democratic forum and a subregional platform for cooperation and harmonization of laws dealing with questions of peace, security and integration. I would also mention the establishment of the Central African Court of Justice, the seat of which will be in N’Djamena. I would like to refer to the high-level seminar held in Yaoundé from 19 to 21 July this year on the report of the Secretary-General on the causes of conflict and the promotion of durable peace and sustainable development in Africa, proceeding from the desire and determination of the leaders of Central Africa to build peace and progress in the subregion. This high-profile meeting — which brought together parliamentarians, seasoned experts, civilians and military, men and women with experience representing civil society and non-governmental organizations and whose report was published by the United Nations — made it possible to identify ways and means for the specific implementation in Central Africa of the recommendations of the Secretary-General. The main actions recommended by the seminar to follow up the very frank diagnosis of the situation seek to promote effectively human rights, participative democracy, methods for the peaceful settlement of disputes, good governance, transparency, international humanitarian law and accelerated national and regional integration. The proliferation and illicit circulation of small arms and light weapons in the region is another major concern for the member countries of the Committee because they threaten their stability. A subregional conference will be held on this subject at the end of October in N’Djamena under the aegis of the Committee and with United Nations support. It will make it possible for member States to assess the scale, causes, mechanisms and consequences of this phenomenon and to envisage specific steps to be taken. All of these actions — in particular the establishment of COPAX, the early warning mechanism, the subregional human rights centre, the parliament and the Central African Court of Justice — are challenges, not merely for Central Africa itself, but clearly for the entire international community. They will be priority areas for fruitful bilateral and multilateral cooperation at the threshold of the new millennium. That is certainly the wish of the peoples of Central Africa. The design of a subregional policy for peace, stability, democracy and development in Central Africa is partly related to the domestic policy of Cameroon. The head of State has always believed that there is no crisis that cannot be resolved peacefully through dialogue, pooling of efforts and especially through respect for the law. It is this conviction that prompted Cameroon to stress the search for a settlement through legal means of the dispute with the Federal Republic of Nigeria regarding the land and maritime border. In this year which marks the closing of the United Nations Decade of International Law, we must forcefully reaffirm our total support for the rule of law in inter-State relations and the peaceful settlement of disputes, including through jurisdictional means when other mechanisms have proved to be ineffectual. That is why we urge the international community to continue to help our two countries, Cameroon and Nigeria, to adopt effective measures to strengthen peace and the climate of 21 confidence which has emerged following the contacts at the highest level which have taken place this year. Pending the verdict of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, three of these measures could be taken right now: a solemn declaration of commitment to abide by the Court’s decision, withdrawal of armed forces from the battlefield to positions which they held before the outbreak of fighting, and the lifting by Nigeria of its recent reservations about the optional clause regarding binding jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice, reservations which negate an international society based on law. The positive winds of change now blowing across Nigeria, following the coming to power of the democratically elected civilian regime, give us enormous hope. Through the work it did last year, Cameroon, like other States in Central Africa, is resolutely committed to saving succeeding generations from the scourge of war. But we did more than that. We also determined for the sake of future generations to protect the environment and to safeguard the natural resources. An example of this was the summit on conservation and sustainable forest development organized last March in Yaoundé in the presence of heads of State and Government of the subregion and a distinguished host, His Royal Highness Prince Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, who is past President of the World Wide Fund for Nature. Four resolutions were adopted by the heads of State and Government of Central Africa to preserve and extend the millions of hectares of forest in our subregion. They undertook to conserve and manage the forests of Central Africa in a sustainable manner to safeguard our rich biodiversity. They then undertook, in particular, to protect new transnational forest zones in the Congo basin. Then the major partners and donors agreed to provide financial and technical assistance to implement the resolutions and commitments adopted at the Yaoundé summit. Finally, the summit participants agreed that good forest management is an important part of work for sustainable development in Central Africa. However, in the areas of the protection, conservation and sustainable management of forests and biodiversity, a profound dilemma has arisen. Central Africa is, after the Amazon region of South America, the second largest forested area of the world whose natural characteristics are decisive for the balance of the biosphere and the ecosystems of the entire planet. The accelerated and mindless destruction of this forest would in fact be a direct way to prepare for the disappearance of all life on earth. In a word, the forests of Central Africa are the lungs of the world. Following the Yaoundé summit, the senior officials of Central Africa and the peoples concerned became clearly aware of their duty to all humankind, a duty that should be reflected in the sound conservation and management of forests and the diverse resources they contain. But at the same time, the experts rightly noted that this would involve extremely heavy and increasingly higher costs. The costs of protecting species, reforestation and reintroducing animals, as well as the administrative costs involved in the functioning of the institutions needed to do those jobs, will be an additional burden on the already meagre resources of the countries of our subregion. This is why we believe that it would only be right for the whole of humankind — for which we are making this vital sacrifice of forest and biodiversity conservation — to find the ways and means to support us in this work for the common good. This could be done by providing matching funds or, better yet, by bringing about genuine global action under the guidance of the United Nations and financed by a fund for the preservation and sustainable management of forests and biodiversity in Central Africa. That fund would support all the important preliminary work to be done in this essential area of globalization. We will be submitting a draft resolution on this subject for the kind consideration of the General Assembly. When Cameroon campaigns with other States for the protection of the environment and for the safeguarding of natural resources, we do so very mindful of the long term, which has meaning only in relation to the future of mankind, and of younger generations in particular. We are all the more conscious of the importance of the legacy we will leave for the adults of tomorrow because more than 46 per cent of the population of Cameroon will reach adulthood at the beginning of the twenty-first century. The proportion of our children who are today under 15 years of age, like all men and women of the world in the next century, have a legitimate right to demand of us, as the most important part of our legacy, peace, security and stability in freedom and development and in a healthy environment. That is why, in conclusion, I wish to 22 address our partners in the prosperous countries, particularly the Group of Eight. I wish first of all to say how much we appreciate the steps that have been taken this year to reduce the debt burden of the poorest countries, particularly those in our continent. According to the Secretary-General, the African debt burden represents more than 300 per cent of the value of goods and services exported from the region. Therefore, the spirit of solidarity in the Group of Eight, which is a good sign, must be pursued and consolidated while taking into account the situation of the so-called medium-income countries. That spirit of solidarity must be resolutely continued and take root in all other developed countries. The Secretary-General's in-depth coverage of many subjects in his report calls for us to reflect on them. I will take up just one of these subjects: AIDS. Like other pandemics, AIDS not only jeopardizes the future of millions of African men and women, it is also a mortal danger for all humankind. To show a lack of concern for its ravages in Africa, no matter what part of the world one comes from, would be suicidal indifference. The future of the world is more indivisible than ever before. The choice can no longer be postponed — the choice between the universal common good and the chaos caused by poverty, destitution, ignorance, injustice, the absence of good governance, interference, wars, et cetera. The end of this century shows every sign of serving as a loud and clear call to the whole of mankind, but first and foremost to the leaders of nations. The end of the century has made hope possible and has brought about the global advancement of the values of peace, democracy, solidarity and the struggle for human rights. These principles must not merely guide each nation; we believe that they should also inspire the relations between nations. The staunch resolve of all countries to promote these principles together is the only guarantee of a better future for humanity. In order to bring this about, mankind as a whole — increasingly more united and in solidarity under the banner of the United Nations — has a duty to provide speedy assistance wherever the life and dignity of the human being have been seriously undermined or threatened. Accordingly, it is clear that the international community, assembled within the United Nations, has an inalienable, inviolate and sacred right to act. This universal right to act, whose letter, spirit, legality and legitimacy come from the Charter itself, is the reflection and the inevitable consequence of the changes occurring in the world today. Clearly, it excludes any form of interference. A new world has thus been born; we must acknowledge this from now on. The Millennium Assembly and the Millennium Summit, to be held in the year 2000, should embody the spirit of that new world and set it in order. At the outset, I wish, on behalf of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. I am convinced that his experience and his wisdom will enable him to guide the work of the session to a successful conclusion. My delegation assures him of its complete cooperation in that noble task. I take this opportunity also to express my thanks to his predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, for the distinguished manner in which he has conducted the session just concluded. I would also like to pay a well-deserved tribute to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his tireless efforts in reforming and restructuring the Organization, and in improving its functioning and strengthening its role in all areas so that it can adapt to the requirements and challenges of the day. In this regard, we welcome the valuable report on the work of the Organization that he presented at the beginning of these proceedings. Mauritania welcomes the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga to the membership of our Organization. We would like to express our readiness to work with them to achieve the objectives of the United Nations. We have to undertake immediately the reform of the United Nations and the restructuring of its organs in order to serve the world’s common interests. No one can deny that the circumstances in which the Organization was founded more than 50 years ago have changed a great deal, and that important new changes have occurred in all areas since then. This only makes a re-examination of the structures and working methods of the Organization more imperative. It is in this spirit that my delegation supports the expansion of representation in the Security Council in accordance with the principles of democracy, transparency and equity in order to ensure equitable geographical representation in that body, and to reflect the universal nature of our Organization, as laid down in the Charter. 18 As we meet at the threshold of the third millennium, a large portion of humanity still lives in conditions that do not enable people to satisfy their legitimate hopes and aspirations to live in a world where peace, justice and well- being reign. In spite of some encouraging indicators in certain developing countries, the general tendency is that of a widening gap between developed and developing countries. The latter are going through profound changes over which they have no control, affected by, among other things, their debt burden, deterioration of commodity prices, poor access to international markets and weakness of foreign investment. This situation should alert the Organization of the need not to limit its actions to the traditional maintenance of international peace and security. The situation calls for the Organization to strive to lighten the heavy burden under which the developing countries languish in the economic and social fields. The United Nations must also help these countries step up the pace of their economic growth. In this regard, donor countries should increase their official development assistance, increase their foreign investment and open up their markets to the products of developing countries in order to help bring about a new world order based on dialogue, cooperation and solidarity. In this context, and since debt constitutes a burden that the developing countries are incapable of bearing, it is imperative to give the question of debt the attention it deserves. We express the hope that initiatives taken to help the most heavily indebted poor countries will make it possible to eliminate the obstacles that are neutralizing and frustrating their development efforts. Today the world faces many troublesome situations, the consequences of which are felt beyond the frontiers of the countries immediately involved. Such situations threaten security, nationally, regionally and internationally, and call into question the progress achieved towards economic and social development. We are required to find proper solutions for such problems. By way of example, I would mention terrorism, human rights violations and poverty. In this regard, my country reiterates its condemnation of terrorism, whatever its origin and form. It calls on the international community to strengthen cooperation and dialogue in order to combat this phenomenon with determination and firmness. Last year the General Assembly commemorated the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which coincided with the fifth anniversary of the World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna. That was an opportunity to evaluate the results of the implementation of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action and the remaining obstacles in this area, and to identify necessary measures for the full implementation of the recommendations that the World Conference on Human Rights had adopted and that my country is striving to translate into reality. We should also mention the special session on population and development held by the General Assembly in this very Hall at the end of last June at which the Programme of Action of the Cairo International Conference on Population and Development was reaffirmed. We hope that the results of that meeting will help improve the standard of living of all peoples and will help bring about sustainable development thanks to the strengthening of the correlation between questions of population and those of development. In this area, I would like to point out that my country has stepped up its efforts to promote the status of women and to combat illiteracy in all its forms, and it has produced programmes with beneficial effects for the family, for children in particular and for society in general. The Islamic Republic of Mauritania has adopted a foreign policy based on immutable principles of promoting good-neighbourly relations, peaceful coexistence and the enhancement of regional and international cooperation. On the basis of these principles, my country attaches particular importance to strengthening stability and to containing the numerous sources of tension throughout the world, which are likely to jeopardize international peace and security and compromise the development efforts of nations. While reaffirming its whole-hearted support for the peace process, my country believes that no just, comprehensive and lasting peace can be brought about in the Middle East without the application of the principle of land for peace as agreed at the Madrid Conference, and the comprehensive implementation of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978), which guarantee Israeli withdrawal from all occupied Palestinian territories, as well as from the Syrian Golan Heights, southern Lebanon and West Bekaa, and the restoration to the Palestinian people of all their legitimate rights, first and foremost their right to self-determination and to the creation of their independent State with Jerusalem as its capital. Today, as we embark on a new era, the international community is looking forward to reviving the peace 19 process and to restoring it to its proper track. In this regard, we believe that a resumption of negotiations on all tracks between all parties concerned is a most urgent measure. We therefore invite the two sponsors of the peace process to shoulder their responsibilities and to exert greater efforts to preserve the opportunity of a comprehensive, just and lasting peace in this region. In the Gulf region, we hope to see a combination of regional and international efforts that would restore stability and concord to the region. In this regard, my country reaffirms its commitment to and respect for international legality and the resolutions of the United Nations, and repeats its rejection of anything that may be prejudicial to the independence and the territorial integrity of Kuwait. We also reaffirm our repudiation of any measure likely to threaten the unity and territorial integrity of Iraq. We call for lifting the embargo that for eight years now has been inflicted on the Iraqi people, who have suffered enormously, especially children, women and the elderly. In the Maghreb region, my country is working together with its brothers in the Arab Maghreb Union to establish cooperation and dialogue in order to fulfil the aspirations of the peoples of the region. As regards the Western Sahara, my country welcomes the positive steps taken towards the implementation of the United Nations plan to resolve the dispute. We reaffirm our readiness to do everything in our power to promote the implementation of this plan. With regard to the Lockerbie incident, my country welcomes the efforts undertaken to achieve a final settlement of this question, including the suspension of the sanctions imposed against the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. Although we are pleased by the success of certain diplomatic démarches, we nevertheless feel that it is time for the Security Council to take the necessary steps to lift this embargo once and for all. As regards Guinea-Bissau, my country welcomes the settlement that was achieved within the framework of the Abuja and Lomé Agreements, and we support the transitional Government. In particular, we support the implementation of commitments entered into at the Geneva round table and aimed at organizing pluralistic elections and at the reconstruction of the country. Furthermore, while expressing our profound concern about the persistence of conflict in Somalia, we hope that our Somali brothers will engage in constructive dialogue and in a spirit of responsibility and patriotism so that a peaceful settlement can be reached and Somalia will again be united and will regain its national sovereignty in an atmosphere of stability and concord. My country also welcomes the Peace Agreement reached between the legitimate Government of Sierra Leone and the Revolutionary United Front, and fervently calls for stability and reconciliation in that country, which suffered tremendously during eight years of devastating war. My country also notes with satisfaction the gradual return of peace to the Republic of the Congo and urges our Congolese brothers to continue their negotiations, with a view to bringing about a peaceful settlement of their dispute so that that fraternal country can once again live in peace and harmony. As regards the Democratic Republic of the Congo, we welcome the diplomatic efforts of the fraternal countries of the region, in particular South Africa and Zambia, as well as the important role played by the leader of the Libyan revolution, Colonel Muammar Al-Qadhafi, in containing the crisis. In this regard, we welcome the signing of the Lusaka Agreement. As to Angola, my country expresses its profound regret at the resumption of fighting between the Government forces and the UNITA movement. In this regard, we reaffirm our wholehearted support for Security Council resolutions 864 (1993), 1127 (1997) and 1173 (1998) and urge UNITA to respect the obligations it entered into under the Lusaka Protocol to restore peace and security. On the conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea, we urge the two parties to respect the ceasefire and to try to find a peaceful settlement, on the basis of the plan of the Organization of African Unity. In this context, we place great hope in the good-offices mission of Mr. Abdelaziz Bouteflika, current Chairman of the OAU, to bring about a peaceful and equitable settlement of the conflict. On Kosovo, my country notes with satisfaction the progress achieved in putting an end to the violence, restoring confidence and reconstructing what was destroyed over the long period of war. The United Nations was created in order to achieve objectives shared by all humanity: the maintenance of 20 peace, security and stability throughout the world. The letter and the spirit of the Charter of our Organization provide for a just balance between the rights and obligations of all and aim at achieving these common interests of the international community. Therefore, today, as we are about to enter the third millennium, we are duty-bound to devote our efforts to honouring the commitments laid down in the Charter and to work together to build a new world order based on justice and directed towards preserving international peace and security. I wish to join the many previous speakers who have congratulated the President. I congratulate him most warmly on behalf of the Congolese delegation on his election to preside over the fifty-fourth session, which is a tribute to him personally and to his country, a symbol of the struggle for decolonization in Africa. The Congo, an old friend of Namibia, welcomes his election. I am convinced that thanks to his human qualities and his wealth of experience forged in the liberation struggle and at the head of his country's diplomacy, the work of this session will be carried out harmoniously and successfully. I assure him of the support of my delegation in the discharge of his heavy responsibilities. To his predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, we express our profound gratitude for the ability and skill with which he conducted the work of the last session. To the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan, we pay a well-deserved tribute for his profound commitment to the service of peace and development. Lastly, I would like to welcome warmly the new Member States of Kiribati, Nauru and Tonga, whose admission can only strengthen the universal nature of the United Nations. Has not the time come to take stock of our common labour? Will the great family of the United Nations enter the third millennium convinced that it has contributed to promoting the noble ideals contained in the Charter of our universal Organization? Have international peace and security, the development of nations and the rights of citizens been treated in a way that allows us to enter the next century calmly and with hope? In Africa there are still far too many causes for concern. Far too many challenges leave us doubtful, despite some positive events in the continent, in particular the political changes in South Africa and Nigeria. In Angola, the many statements and decisions of the international community remain unimplemented because of Jonas Savimbi's stubborn adherence to the logic of war. The war in Angola, which has rendered fruitless the efforts of an entire generation of diplomats, has revealed the limits of our Organization in the restoration of peace. This is the occasion to reaffirm that the solid base for a definitive resolution of the conflict remains the effective implementation of comprehensive mandatory sanctions. They alone will lead to the complete isolation of Mr. Jonas Savimbi and UNITA, so long as the international community truly complies. With regard to the Democratic Republic of the Congo, we welcome the conclusion of the Lusaka Agreement, which opens the way to resolving the political and military crisis in that fraternal country. My country is counting on the commitment of the various protagonists for the Agreement's implementation. We strongly hope that the observer mission planned by the United Nations will be effective and that it will create favourable conditions for the holding of a Great Lakes regional conference, which the international community is calling for wholeheartedly. The conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea is another major concern in Africa. We invite those two fraternal peoples to rise above the situation by fully supporting the peace plan of the Organization of African Unity to put an end to that war. Lastly, we cannot fail to pay tribute to the courage displayed by the authorities of Sierra Leone, who have agreed to pay a very high price for the restoration of peace in that country. In this world, in which the universality of principles is often limited by force, great men can be guided only by the interests of their peoples. A year ago, from this very rostrum, I proclaimed our faith in the future of our country following the civil war that started on 5 June 1997. I said then that for the Congolese Government the future was national reconciliation, the restoration of peace, the reconstruction of the country and the resumption of the democratic process. We have explained this great project wherever and whenever we could — at the United Nations, at the Organization of African Unity and in all our contacts with all of our partners — and we have found understanding and attention everywhere. In the context of the resumption of the democratic process, we have carried out an administrative census of the population in order to identify the electorate; we have elaborated a draft Constitution; and we have established our higher courts — the Supreme Court and the High Court of Justice. 13 Regrettably, this impetus has been hampered by a resumption of violence, orchestrated once again by those who on several occasions plunged our people into mourning — first in 1993-1994 and then in 1997 — and whose only aim is the partition of Congo into ethnic ghettos. The consequences have been catastrophic for the entire country. These have included heinous crimes such as the assassination of officials and leaders of local communities, the kidnapping of tens of thousands of people to serve as human shields for the armed groups, and the systematic destruction of infrastructures vital to the economy of the country. But those plans to overthrow institutions have failed. Today the pacification efforts made by the Government have borne fruit. The fighting has ended. Several former militia members of the failed regime have laid down their weapons and have given themselves up to the authorities. We are also seeing a mass influx of civilians back into Brazzaville and to the main towns in the interior. The guests who did us the honour of participating in the Pan-African Music Festival that the city of Brazzaville hosted from 1 to 8 August 1999 witnessed the determination of the Government and the entire people to rebuild this country as a haven of peace. That event — a time of great joy and reunion for the Congolese people — strengthened our conviction that the worst was behind us and that henceforth we could look to the future with calmness and optimism. All of these steps forward on the path of peace are to the credit of one man, President Denis Sassou Nguesso. His faith in reconciliation and national unity was again made clear on 14 August 1999 on the occasion of the national holiday, when, on behalf of the fraternal republic, he solemnly reaffirmed his desire for dialogue and decided to grant amnesty to all combatants guilty of war crimes who agreed to renounce violence and definitively to lay down their weapons. In this same context of a return to a stable situation under full control throughout the national territory, the Government reiterates its firm and unswerving will to resume the inter-Congolese political dialogue with a view to pacification and reunion in order to consolidate the newfound peace and security, strengthen national unity and the reconciliation of all the sons and daughters of the Congo, rebuild the country on a lasting basis, and resume the democratic process, which had been interrupted by violence. The offer made was favourably received, leading in particular to the return to Brazzaville of many political leaders who had gone into exile following the war of 5 June 1997. We are confident in the positive outcome of this process. In the wake of such a tragic period, naturally we are striving to cope with emergency situations. These include the shelter, management and social reintegration of tens of thousands of displaced persons, a humanitarian tragedy whose scale has not always been clearly perceived by the international community; the protection of people and property; the respect of human rights; and the restoration of normal living conditions in many war-torn communities — an overwhelming task that anyone would agree requires means exceeding by far the capacities of a State bled dry such as Congo is today. We are assuming all of our responsibilities, and here we call on the international community, which should accompany our efforts with greater commitment and contribute, as it wishes to do, to the restoration on a lasting basis of peace, security and democracy and to the reconstruction of Congo. At a time when our people are suffering from poverty and destitution and from the economic crisis, there is no place for conflicts that are both fratricidal and suicidal. In the context of the quest for sustainable and lasting peace and development in Africa, specific and practical measures must be resolutely taken along the lines of the conclusions contained in the report of the Secretary- General of our Organization. Among those conclusions, which we unanimously supported, I would like to mention those relating to the proliferation of, and illicit traffic in, small arms, which is an important factor in the increase in terrorism and crime in our States. That is why, at the thirty-fifth Summit of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), held last July in Algiers, the African Heads of State and Government devoted most of their consideration to ways and means of consolidating peace in order to create modern States based on the primacy of law, respect of the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, and the democratic governance of public affairs. 14 Along the same lines, on 20 September last, at the opening of the general debate, the current Chairman of the OAU, Mr. Abdelaziz Bouteflika, President of the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria, clearly set out in this very Hall Africa's views on the key questions of peace, security, economic development and international cooperation. The Congo associates itself fully with that important declaration. I cannot conclude this political analysis without mentioning other areas of tension that are a source of concern for us at this session. Thus we express the hope that the impetus provided by the Wye River accords and the Sharm el-Sheik Memorandum on the Middle East will be consolidated. The Government of the Congo is also closely following the evolution of the situation in East Timor and welcomes the efforts of the international community, which led to the dispatch of an international force to restore peace in that territory and to ensure the respect of the political will clearly expressed by that people during the referendum organized by the United Nations. On the threshold of the twenty-first century, building peace and security in the world requires real commitment on our part to work for economic and social development. In this context, our planet can never be certain of lasting peace so long as there is destitution and poverty, which not only affect the quality of human life but are also a cause of political instability. But how can we achieve lasting sustainable development when the world economy is opening up no encouraging prospects for developing countries, when debt receives discriminatory treatment in initiatives whose conditions for implementation show how illusory they are, when resources allocated to official development assistance are constantly declining, and lastly, when there is a clear refusal to grant developing countries opportunities to integrate their economies into the new trade system. In any case, because of what is at stake, globalization will be the main challenge of the next century. Today it is giving rise to fears because of the threat it implies to the sovereignty of our States and to our cultural and historical characteristics, and because it raises grave questions about our countries' prospects for development. Its implementation calls more than ever for the creation of appropriate, agreed- upon mechanisms so as to translate into reality hopes for humankind's unified development and for prosperity shared among peoples. It was in this context that recently, at Algiers and at Sirte, that the Heads of State and Government of the member countries of the Organization of African Unity resolutely committed themselves to working for the strengthening of subregional economic groups, in accordance with the spirit of the Abuja Treaty. The coming century will bring with it challenges for our Organization. Overcoming them will require harmonized approaches taken in a representative context. Thus my country attaches particular importance to the strengthening of the role of the United Nations and to the restructuring of its main bodies, so as to combat the uncertainties born of an unequal world and to take firm steps to make multilateralism truly democratic. The United Nations remains an irreplaceable tool. However, it deserves to be rethought and revitalized so that it will be equal to the challenges confronting us. To succeed, we will need to join together the will, the efforts and the means of the whole of the international community. Congo reaffirms its commitment to make its full contribution to the achievement of that goal.  ﻿Mr. President, it gives me great pleasure at the outset to offer you my warmest congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. Your election to this high post reflects the value the international community attaches to the role played by your friendly country. We are confident of the friendly relations between our two countries. We also know that your expertise and commitment to international issues will enrich the discussions of this session of the General Assembly. My delegation pledges its full cooperation and support to you to make your presidency a success. I also take this opportunity to express my warmest thanks and appreciation to our colleague Mr. Didier Opertti, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Uruguay, for his great efforts as President at the previous session. I would also like to salute Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his great efforts in enhancing the administration and performance of the United Nations and its mission to serve international peace and security. The Sultanate of Oman welcomes the admission at this session of the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga to the membership of the United Nations. We are confident that their membership will reflect positively on the United Nations and will help us further consolidate our efforts as an international community to achieve the progress and prosperity we all aspire to, in a way that promotes the 23 noble goals for which this important international forum was created. The unanimous decision to hold the millennium summit during the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly is clear proof of the importance of that last summit of this century. This is an essential and important step that will enable our leaders to issue a declaration that may be considered a plan of action. That declaration could reformulate a new concept for economic success and development for all peoples. As we approach the next century with confidence, we must focus our attention on restructuring the work of international organizations in order to enrich and develop the work of the United Nations and its relevant agencies, such as the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and other international and regional institutions, so that they are able to function effectively for the future welfare and prosperity of humanity. We recognize the importance of the effective management of these international institutions through the generous and special financial and technical contributions of developed nations and institutions. These contributions must always meet the needs and priorities of reforming the economies of developing nations, which form the largest part of the global market and which provide a large part of the world's natural resources and raw materials. The development of these economies will undoubtedly bring about a more stable world economy. We call for the establishment of balanced rules and regulations between the developed nations of the North and the developing nations of the South in order to effect a qualitative change in their relations. While bold change and real sacrifices are needed to restructure the economies of the developing world so that they can meet the requirements of the global free market, there is a greater need for the economically developed nations to take bold and decisive steps in cancelling more debts, restructuring the costs of manufactured goods and establishing a new economic mechanism to provide loans and to re-regulate the size of industries and lower global rates of inflation. We also call for the establishment of an international reporting system that will draw up periodic regional plans to enable all regions to achieve the economic advances necessary to overcome their economic difficulties. We look with admiration and great interest to the European Union's experience of economic integration as a pilot project that aims at serving the economic prosperity of the peoples of the European continent, the integration of their cultural heritage and the elimination of their social and political differences. Indeed, such a qualitative leap in European society would undoubtedly contribute to a more stable and balanced world, especially if it were based on moral norms of international transparency. It would surely be an excellent model which could be emulated in other parts of the world in keeping with the specific requirements of these regions and in a way that responds to their traditions, their heritage and the particularities of their culture. We believe that economic development and trade are a bridge for communication between civilizations. Therefore, negotiations leading to the admission of the rest of the developing countries to the World Trade Organization (WTO) must be fair and just. Such negotiations must recognize the importance of giving developing nations an opportunity to see their trade and their infant industries grow and an opportunity also to consolidate their competitive edge, in the context of a general commitment to the free market principles of supply and demand. Our world needs to rid the large markets of the developed nations of dumping policies, market constraints and other obstacles to free trade: free trade should not be a way to destroy the economies of the developing countries. A realistic balance between the interests of the developed and the developing nations should be the aim of the forthcoming WTO Ministerial-level conference in Seattle. Such a balance should draw on the world's experience since the end of the cold war and the emergence of the new world order. In the present international climate, the United Nations bears the huge responsibility of creating the right social and economic circumstances for better, more harmonious coexistence and for peace and stability. That responsibility creates an urgent need for more consultation and dialogue between Member States, especially at the regional level, towards restructuring United Nations bodies and expanding the membership of the Security Council. We must encourage serious, realistic and flexible thinking about the Council's role, responsibilities and mandates in the service of international peace and security to enable the Council to be more receptive and realistically responsive to cultural and educational pluralism and to the various political schools of thought in human society. Expanded membership would also 24 enhance the role of the new forces that are currently becoming more important through their influence on international events. Since the end of the cold war, we have heard the calls for democracy, free trade and the free market economy as ways of establishing greater harmony among humankind. We believe that the road towards this objective must begin with dialogue between civilizations on an international platform of cultural norms, and based on the sound principles of balanced political relations, interests and mutual benefit in keeping with the needs of every culture and civilization. The new ideas emanating from this dialogue could be used as a new moral gateway to relations between people in the new millennium and as a bond of trust and fruitful cooperation between all cultures and civilizations. It would certainly create a new and common harmony in all patterns of life. We support this human endeavour in the context of General Assembly resolution 53/22 proclaiming the year 2001 as the United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations. We support any regional or multilateral action that seeks to solve the political disputes still outstanding between States, especially between neighbouring States, which share common interests along with a common border. The Sultanate of Oman believes deeply in the importance of quiet and meaningful dialogue between all States and between all parties. Oman works alongside its brothers in the Gulf Cooperation Council to consolidate a positive climate and extend our common ground with neighbouring countries. We do so in order to ensure that common principles and rules are adopted and accepted to form the basis for bilateral or collective dialogue on outstanding problems. Iraq is still subject to the sanctions regime imposed by the Security Council in the aftermath of Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in August 1990. Although the Security Council, through the United Nations Special Commission (UNSCOM), has tried to enforce its resolutions on the destruction of Iraqi weapons of mass destruction over the last eight years, it has not yet been able to agree on a unanimous policy towards Iraq. Consequently, the Iraqi people are suffering greatly from the continuing sanctions. Although the oil—for—food programme has been implemented, it cannot satisfactorily meet the basic humanitarian needs of the Iraqi people. In this context, many international organizations and agencies working in the field of health and other humanitarian services have expressed their fears about the dire effects that threaten the future of the Iraqi people. The Council of the League of Arab States, in its consultative session of 24 January 1999, adopted a call for the economic sanctions imposed on Iraq to be lifted. The Council appealed to all Arab Governments to make every possible effort towards this end through cooperation with the United Nations. The Sultanate of Oman emphasizes the importance of lifting the economic sanctions in order to end the suffering of the Iraqi people. We call on the Security Council to put its differences aside and adopt a positive and unanimous policy towards Iraq. We also call on the Iraqi Government to cooperate positively and fully with the United Nations in implementing the remaining resolutions, especially those relating to Kuwaiti prisoners of war and missing persons. The early signs of the long-awaited peace in the Middle East, to which its people have long aspired, fortunately coincide with the end of the century and the beginning of the third millennium. All parties, especially the Israeli Government, must take this opportunity to write a new history based on coexistence and cooperation among the peoples of the region, a region that so urgently needs to enjoy the fruits of stability and development. The establishment of an independent Palestinian State will undoubtedly be an important pillar for the conclusion of a comprehensive and just peace in the Middle East. It will also serve as a real tool for the development of cooperation and coexistence between the Arab States and Israel. We call on the Israeli Government to respond quickly and implement the various obligations and agreements concluded since Madrid. We also call upon the Israeli Government to implement Security Council resolutions on Lebanon: resolutions 425 (1978) and 426 (1978). We call upon Israel to resume negotiations on the Syrian track at the point where they left off and to make every effort to withdraw from occupied Syrian territory to the established border of 4 June 1967. Mutual security requirements between the Arabs and Israelis on both sides of the border are of prime importance. The legitimacy of such requirements justifies negotiations on the basis of the principle of land for peace. Israel must feel secure and comfortable about the general Arab attitude towards peace. 25 Peace agreements signed with Egypt and Jordan have offered the clearest proof of the Arabs' commitment to peace and their absolute willingness to participate, along with Israel, in the establishment of a secure, peaceful and developed Middle East. Arab positions across a range of international activities and forums have demonstrated the seriousness of their desire to live in peace and security with Israel. We are about to enter a new century. We feel hopeful and ambitious for a future in which the security and stability of human life will improve. However, a number of conflicts and hotbeds of tension continue to cause concern for the international community. In Africa, conflicts and confrontations among countries remain the biggest source of suffering for the African people. Therefore, the United Nations is required to exert greater efforts in support of the Organization of African Unity in its endeavour to mediate in the various conflicts, including those between Ethiopia and Eritrea, in the Great Lakes region, in West Africa and in Somalia. We hope that Africa will thus be able to free itself from the vestiges of the past and enter a new era of freedom, economic development and security for its people and for the world at large. The giant continent, Asia, continues to offer the most dynamic current force for human development. Despite the successes achieved by the Asian people in various spheres of life, unrest, civil wars and sources of instability are still abundant. The Muslim Asian country of Afghanistan still suffers from deep and complex internal conflicts. Therefore we sincerely hope that all the Afghan leaders will take advantage of past lessons and use the world community's desire to help them to end their crisis and to give the Afghan people the opportunity to heal their painful wounds. In East Asia, we call on all parties in the Korean peninsula to work towards ending the conflict and the achievement of peace. Then the Korean people in North and South Korea can express their desire for a secure and peaceful future. We have a deep sense of pain for the human tragedy in the Balkans. Reckless policies led to instability, a huge waste of resources, the flight of defenceless people and loss of life and destruction of property. We are thankful for the timely intervention by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in Kosovo, especially after the failure to carry out the Rambouillet Agreement, to put an end to the pain and suffering of the provinces' inhabitants. As we praise the human role assumed by the world community in helping the displaced and the refugees in the Balkans, we hope that those great efforts will continue and thus conclude this noble task. We also appreciate the efforts of the Secretary-General to restore peace and stability to the region. The world still faces the nuclear threat as a result of the proliferation of nuclear weapons technology and the efforts of many States outside what is known as the nuclear club to acquire the technology for this dreadful weapon. The States seeking these weapons still feel threatened politically and militarily and are worried about their security, sovereignty and future capabilities. Making a realistic and careful assessment of this situation would definitely lead us to conclude that there must have been fundamental and legitimate reasons why such countries would choose to spend large amounts of money to secure such weapons at a time when these assets could have been spent on the economic and social development of their people. Among the principal and legitimate reasons for this choice is that the major States which already possess nuclear weapons and technology did not do enough to guarantee the non-proliferation of this technology. The phenomenon that the major Powers alone can shape choices about peace and war in areas of the developing world may be one of the strongest reasons for the sudden eruption of conflagrations in such areas. Therefore nuclear States, especially the permanent members of the Security Council, should undertake the necessary measures that will guarantee the security of non-nuclear States and deter the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons. The United Nations, through the Security Council, must adopt binding resolutions in accordance with the Charter to protect the world from the threat of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. The arms control conference which is still debating secondary issues of technical dimensions must therefore seek to reach positive conclusions as soon as possible. At the last session we expressed our concern over what had befallen the economies of the Asian countries. We also expressed our faith in the ability of these countries to overcome the economic crisis and the crash that hit the financial markets. 26 Today we witness an encouraging recovery in the Asian economies — a result of the determination of these countries, especially the States of the Association of South- East Asian Nations (ASEAN), to protect their economies through exemplary solidarity. We would like to applaud the important role played by those States which provided financial assistance. We pay tribute to the role played by the world financial institutions, especially the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. They halted the danger of deterioration in the world economy and restored confidence in Asian markets. However, these two institutions should review their conditions for providing loans to developing nations to help their economies. In most cases, these conditions fail to achieve their planned and targeted goals primarily because of the enormous social and political problems which they create. The Earth Summit for the environment and development, held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil in 1992, set an agenda for the twenty-first century that is now viewed as the basis upon which international partnership and collective responsibility can work to put an end to poverty, hunger, ill health and the deterioration of ecosystems, and to achieve sustainable development the only way for humanity to ensure progress and prosperity for present and future generations. My country takes a comprehensive view of environmental issues. We believe that the protection of the environment is a responsibility for everyone to share. In this context, my country devotes a great segment of its resources to continuing to implement the Rio agenda and effective and objective participation in environmental and development forums on many international, regional and national levels. We also continue to enact and update environmental laws in order to assure adaptation to the best standards of environmental protection against the dangers of pollution and to guarantee the implementation of the international and regional environmental agreements that my country has signed. My country looks forward to joining the World Trade Organization (WTO) soon. We hope to participate in the work of the Organization as a fully fledged member and to play our role effectively. We thank all our trade partners which have expressed encouragement and understanding for our application for membership. We are determined to work hand—in—hand with all members to consolidate the multilateral trade system and help it flourish. Next November the American city of Seattle will host the third ministerial conference of the World Trade Organization. The Sultanate of Oman attaches special importance to this conference because it will be a prelude to the new phase of multilateral trade negotiations, the Millennium Round, which should contribute to opening the way for free and prosperous global trade. Probably one of the most important issues facing developing countries is the issue of the liberalization of the service sector. Although its liberalization may have some benefits for developing countries in terms of the flow of foreign capital, technology and modern administrative and technical expertise, it will inevitably be accompanied by huge challenges. This is particularly true in the light of open competition from the service sector in developed nations. Oman expects the world community to take measures that would help developing nations develop their service sectors in order to guarantee them a comparable and viable share in the global services market. We appreciate the admirable international efforts and good intentions to establish an original global legislative structure as a basis for international relations in different areas. However, we always return to the clear truth that in the Charter of the United Nations are enshrined the purposes and principles that we must all work to preserve in the interest of the future security and wellbeing of all humanity. Please accept our warmest congratulations, Sir, on your well-deserved election to the presidency of the General Assembly. We wish you every success, which we are convinced will be forthcoming in your leadership and in the outcome of these proceedings. We also wish to convey heartfelt recognition to the Foreign Minister of Uruguay, Mr. Didier Opertti, who so brilliantly presided over the last session, a matter of legitimate pride for Latin America. I should also like to convey a message of warm support and tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the fruitful work that he has been pursuing with commendable energy and great vision, to reform, strengthen and invigorate the complex and sensitive United Nations system within a comprehensive context while looking towards a new century and a new millennium that will require all kinds of revisions, adjustments and adaptations. 5 We share and support the initiatives that, among their other objectives, are designed to make it easier for countries that are relatively underdeveloped and engaged in the tasks of economic and social development and combating poverty to achieve the very difficult and painful transition to a new globalized world with a market economy devoid of barriers, where rapidly developing patterns are being imposed with regard to competitiveness, advanced technology, models of culture and consumption, social and computer communications, sophisticated systems of financing and a vast array of other tools and processes. All of this highlights with stark reality the great differences and imbalances that exist at the international level. Those are the major challenges that we must confront together, using political will, hard work, education, training, the transfer of science and technology, investment, openness, production, trade, superior skills and active policies of participation to ensure that shared benefits will flow out to profit all, fairly and equitably, at every layer of the social fabric of our peoples. It would be unfortunate and very dangerous if these great opportunities offered by globalization were not translated into positive, innovative and tangible changes to effectively promote, in the shortest time possible, a substantive improvement in standards of living, expectations and opportunities for the vast majority, within the framework of sustainable development. On occasions, at certain stages in these transitional processes, disturbances have occurred as a result of troubling inequalities between various sectors and social actors. Such differences exist and are growing both in advanced countries and in developing countries, which are in the majority. We should anticipate, reverse, mitigate or, at least, temper with realism and sensitivity such negative effects, which owe their origins and characteristics to specific circumstances and considerations that were assumed to be temporary. A failure to take adequate measures could put at risk budding democracies, which are precariously building stability and the institutional structures of law and governance. In this primordial task, the participation of citizens and of civil society, in its various forms, is vital. We must make use of a constant, open and pluralist dialogue to facilitate changes of course, reform and consensus, which will contribute to the strengthening of democratic systems and make it possible for people to live together in peace. In this context, this year the two main political forces in Nicaragua, which together won a little more than 90 per cent of the vote in the most recent elections, have produced an agenda that will be submitted to the National Assembly for consideration, so that it can be debated with complete transparency in the nation's principal forum. Furthermore, beginning in 1997, my country began a difficult reorganization and structural adjustment process, taking the decision to deal responsibly with the high political and social costs of laying down the stable foundations for dynamic national reconstruction and transformation. We must put behind us once and for all the painful period in our history, which lasted more than a decade and was characterized by destruction and violence in a cycle of fratricidal confrontation and which, fortunately, has now been overcome. That historical interval left us in a very weakened state that was reflected in the deterioration of all human development indicators, the general collapse of economic activities and a gigantic external debt whose unbearable and overwhelming weight was borne on the impoverished shoulders of the long- suffering people of Nicaragua. This situation of extreme fragility made it necessary, from the beginning of my Government, to formulate an economic policy that would gain the support and credibility of the international community and the multilateral organizations. This led to an agreement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) for a new enhanced structural adjustment facility (ESAF) programme which, after its projected completion within a period of three years, would have made it possible for us to qualify for the concessionary plan of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative. While we were occupied with the many sacrifices that we had to make during that tough process of healing, reorganization and reconstruction, a little less than a year ago we suffered the ill-timed and devastating effects of Hurricane Mitch, which severely affected our efforts, work and plans. However, generous international cooperation mitigated to some extent the suffering, the irreparable loss of thousands of lives of our compatriots and the widespread destruction of basic infrastructures, property, natural resources and the environment. The damage inflicted by the tragedy also created new challenges and opportunities, encouraging us to 6 redouble our efforts and to seek the necessary unity, joining together without distinction, in efforts to move forward. In May this year, therefore, the Consultative Group for the Reconstruction and Transformation of Central America, convened initially by the Inter-American Development Bank in Washington in December 1998 as a result of Hurricane Mitch, met in Stockholm and offered Nicaragua phased global support amounting to $2.5 billion for a period of three to four years. This significant support will enable us to give urgent attention to social programmes and infrastructure projects, with priority being given to the sensitive areas of health, education and housing, as well as to plans for assistance to small producers and agricultural workers affected by Hurricane Mitch. The disciplined implementation of the ESAF programme and the new set of circumstances ushered in by the hurricane, led last week to an event that happily coincided with the celebration of our national independence — a resolution of the International Monetary Fund by which it associated itself with the resolution previously adopted by the World Bank, thereby opening the door to Nicaragua for its inclusion in the HIPC initiative. This extraordinary event, which will mean a substantial pardoning of our external debt, was a historical watershed, opening up a fresh chapter in our new independence, which will transform the economic and social reality of our people, making it possible for them to enter the new century relieved of an unbearable burden inherited from the past, with renewed vigour, great potential and realistic optimism for a substantially improved quality of life for Nicaraguans. We should like to reiterate our eternal gratitude to the international community and to the multilateral organizations that have smoothed our path, enabling us to march together, shoulder to shoulder, towards a promising future. Nicaragua appreciates the sustained efforts of the United Nations system. Those efforts have been expanded during this decade to incorporate the great challenges and main issues confronting the country, including issues concerning governance and local development, the promotion of a healthy environment, the reduction of extreme poverty, greater access by disadvantaged populations to public services, the modernization of democratic institutions, the promotion of population policies, the process of demobilization of ex-combatants and the search for solutions to property conflicts through dialogue. Likewise, we acknowledge the special efforts made by the United Nations with regard to strengthening the administration of justice and the penal system, and to the creation of the Inter-American Court of Human Rights. It is also appropriate to emphasize its support for the prevention of natural disasters through overcoming socio-economic and environmental vulnerabilities. Working together with the United Nations, we have gradually been fulfilling the commitments of the Earth Summit of 1992 during my term of office in order to create the National Council on Sustainable Development (CONADES). We have also been making strides concerning the Conventions on Biodiversity and Climate Change, as well as participating in the major projects of the Meso-American Biological Corridor and the Biological Corridor of the Atlantic. At the same time, we have been making a consistent effort in the demining of the border zone with Honduras, where the last war left more than one 100 thousand anti- personnel landmines in the ground. We thank the international community, and especially the Organization of American States and the United Nations, for the significant resources they placed at our disposal to undertake this delicate task. As signatory to the Treaty of Tlatelolco, we unreservedly support initiatives aimed at establishing an international mechanism for the total elimination of nuclear weapons. We are also conscious of the grave menace to the security of our nations and to peace posed by arms trafficking, including trafficking in small arms, which cause the greatest suffering and loss of human life. We join in the world crusade to combat poverty, whether that poverty is generalized, focused or in diverse strata of our societies. We are pleased that the last year of this century has been designated the International Year of Older Persons, who seem increasingly to suffer from poverty and neglect. We likewise reaffirm our commitment to ensure social protection, along with the redoubling of efforts to make more effective both the personal security of citizens and the security of their property. I would not want to end without inviting the Assembly to reflect on the hopes of the 22 million persons who, at the threshold of the twenty-first century, continue to lack representation at the United Nations — the Organization of universal vocation, where the most important decisions having to do with international policy are taken. The Republic of China — founded in 1912 and which has been an independent sovereign nation that 7 maintains official diplomatic relations with Nicaragua and the other republics of Central America and other countries — continues, lamentably and unjustly, to be unrepresented in the Organization. This prevents it from participating in the work of the Organization and from making its valuable contribution in the various areas of international cooperation, despite the fact that it has complied fully with the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations, which was signed at San Francisco. My Government has supported and will continue to support, with firm and fraternal solidarity, the unquestionable right of the Republic of China — whose exercise of full sovereignty over Taiwan for half a century is an unquestionable reality — to be incorporated as a full member of the United Nations. We therefore call anew on the international community not to deny that friendly, progressive and exemplary people the right to be recognized and allowed effective participation in this great forum, thereby affording it the well deserved opportunity of sharing with us its vocation for peace and its generous spirit of international cooperation.  A little over two decades ago I addressed this Assembly as head of a military Government in Nigeria. On that occasion the focus of my statement was the urgent need to terminate colonial rule in Namibia and Rhodesia, now Zimbabwe, and dismantle the racist apartheid South Africa. Today it is a great source of joy for me and my delegation that a distinguished son of Namibia is presiding over the affairs of the fifty-fourth session of the United Nations General Assembly. My delegation assures you, Sir, of its full cooperation and unwavering support throughout your tenure. May I also convey through you, Sir, our deep appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti of Uruguay, for the able and efficient manner in which he conducted the proceedings of the fifty-third session. Our appreciation also goes to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his visionary leadership and the invaluable work of the Secretariat under his stewardship. Permit me also to warmly welcome, on behalf of my country and delegation, the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga, which have just joined this family of nations. I stand before this Assembly today very proud to be the leader of a Nigeria that has successfully managed the transition to democracy after a decade and a half of military rule. I would like to seize this opportunity to express the profound appreciation of all Nigerians for the international support and encouragement which combined so effectively with the relentless determination of Nigerians themselves to reconstruct and transform their country into a vibrant democracy. Our Administration has raised the hopes of Nigerians, and their expectations are correspondingly high. We are well aware of the enormity of the challenges that we face. But we are fully resolved to tackle our numerous social, economic and political problems head on. And, by the Grace of God, we will not fail. Since assuming office some four months ago our administration has put in place an institutional framework for the purpose of reconciling competing interests and groups in our society. Our democratic institutions are now operating effectively within the system of checks and balances enshrined in our Constitution. Furthermore, we have opted for a policy of inclusiveness in all our political appointments, with a Cabinet, for instance, in which all registered political parties are represented, thus moving away from the divisive practice of winner takes all. Our Administration has initiated policies aimed at revitalizing the economy in order to create an enabling environment for investment and economic growth. We have also put in place an appropriate legal framework for 8 the protection of foreign investments and repatriation of legitimate profits. Other measures that we have taken include a vigorous anti-corruption campaign; the promotion of transparency and accountability in public life; the abolition of decrees and regulations which hindered the inflow of foreign investment; the generation of opportunities for employment and income savings for domestic investment; and the privatization of key State enterprises, such as electricity and telecommunications; legislation and other measures to redress obvious cases of neglect and injustice done to ethnic minorities, particularly in the oil-producing areas of the Niger delta region, and to deal with the problems of the environment; investigation of past human rights violations, with a view to promoting and protecting fundamental freedoms; and strengthening the capacity of the law enforcement agencies to promote law and order, as well as security, and to deal more effectively with the problem of drug trafficking. Africa is indeed proud and glad to see the end of this century coincide with the total elimination of colonialism and the twin menace of constitutionalized racism in the southern part of the continent. The United Nations deserves our warm commendation for the crucial role it has played in this process. Let me also pay tribute to the thousands who lost their lives in the struggle for freedom so that those of us alive today can proudly say we have the destiny of the continent in our own hands. It is, however, a destiny which poses monumental challenges in our effort to improve the quality of life on our continent. We must strive to alleviate the grinding poverty and material deprivation that has persistently remained a feature of our political freedom. As we approach the dawn of the new millennium, the defining feature of our increasingly interdependent world is accelerated globalization, and the liberalization of production, trade, investment and finance. But for us in the developing world the reality today is quite different. Globalization, in its various manifestations, is already experiencing a troubled relationship with the imperatives of development. It is rather tragic that Africa, the least developed of all the regions and the least able to cope with external shocks, has borne the brunt of the adverse effects of globalization of the world economy. There are grim statistics which indicate that the well-known marginalization of the African continent has turned into delinkage from the global scene. Since 1992 Africa's exports and imports as a share of world trade has declined from 4 per cent to 2 per cent. Africa's development is presently straitjacketed by a debt burden of around $300 billion. The continent is experiencing import compression, weak productivity and low output. On the average, factories that are still operating do so at less than 30 per cent of installed capacity. Africa's share in total foreign direct investment inflows to developing countries has dropped from 11 per cent in the late 1980s to less than 5 per cent in the second half of the 1990s, and to a meagre 1.2 per cent of world foreign direct investment flows in 1997. This trend has continued, despite the efforts of African countries to implement far-reaching economic reforms and maintain macroeconomic stability, particularly through the introduction of a more open and business-friendly investment environment, and the provision of incentives to attract foreign investment. In the quest for a better and fairer management of a globalized world economy, it is now incumbent upon us to direct our searchlight on the unsatisfactory evolution of the multilateral trading system. In participating in the historic Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations that ushered in the new rules-based trading system, the developing world had hoped that the new trading regime would enhance their trading fortunes, facilitate their effective integration into the world economy, and arrest their marginalization from the global trading system. Unfortunately, however, the vast majority of developing countries, particularly in Africa, have so far been unable to reap the benefits arising from their membership of the World Trade Organization. Africa's trade prospects continue to be hampered by the non- implementation of the special and differential provisions that favour developing countries, and the increasingly protectionist measures that are being imposed against their export products. Besides, the paucity of technical and financial assistance that would have enabled the developing countries to take advantage of the limited market access opportunities that exist continues to deepen Africa's marginalization in the globalized world economy. Without doubt, the biggest monetary and financial obstacle confronting developing countries is the chronic 9 debt overhang. According to United Nations figures, the global debt of all developing countries stood at $567 billion in 1980, and $1.4 trillion in 1992. In that 12-year period these countries made foreign debt payments totalling $1.6 trillion. Now, out of the 41 countries which the World Bank describes as heavily indebted poor countries, 33 are African countries, a group that some believe is richly deserving of its own special category: severely indebted low-income countries. Today in sub-Saharan Africa every man, woman and child owes $357. This is a continent where millions live in abject poverty, earning around $100 a year, or 27 cents a day. Some African countries now spend as much as four times on servicing debts as they do on education and health care. Some countries spend up to 40 per cent of their national budgets on debt servicing. Furthermore, it is reliably estimated that for every dollar given in official development aid, $3 go back to the rich countries in debt service payments. I make bold to assert that calling for debt relief for developing countries is not a plea for charity, but is an urgent matter of social and economic justice. It has to be redressed if there is to be peace and stability in the twenty- first century. Therefore, we propose definitive debt cancellation, not just reduction or rescheduling of the debt service regime. Eligibility should be limited to unpayable debts, which for Africa means the bulk of the $300 billion current stock of debt. There should be debt remission that is not predicated on the institutionally harsh conditionalities of structural adjustment programmes. There should be recognition on both sides of the bargaining table that lenders and borrowers share joint responsibilities for debts incurred in circumstances that are morally questionable in the first place. Debt cancellation should benefit ordinary people. Nigerians rightly expect democracy to yield perceptible dividends in their lives. Our Administration will, however, find the task of meeting this expectation virtually impossible without substantial reduction of our debt burden, especially as we call on the same citizens to make the sacrifices that are implicit in the recent measures aimed at prudent management of our national economy. I wish to invite the attention of the Assembly to the related issue of illegal capital flight from Africa. It is an open secret that much of Africa's wealth has been illegally siphoned out of the continent by corrupt regimes and unpatriotic individuals working in collaboration with foreign partners. Nigeria and many African countries would be able to pay off large portions of their debts if only they could recover some of the capital illegally stashed abroad. We thus believe that now is the time to collectively deal with this issue. In this regard, Nigeria calls for a concerted effort by the international community, through an international convention, for the repatriation to Africa and the developing world of all capital illegally transferred from these countries. Such an international convention or agreement is legally feasible and morally sustainable. It will compel participating banks to disclose the source of the illegal accounts they hold, repatriate them to the countries of rightful ownership and subject the guilty parties to the full weight of national and international law. It is with a heavy heart that I raise the issue of the HIV/AIDS pandemic throughout Africa. Our continent is bearing the brunt of this terrible disease that now kills around 2 million Africans annually, thus officially overtaking malaria as Africa's number one primary health- care problem. This situation is even more frightening in that it has now left 6 million children orphaned in the eastern and southern parts of Africa. In West Africa the disease has been spreading just as rapidly. Unlike malaria, which is location specific, HIV/AIDS knows neither climatic nor regional boundaries. Global cooperation is an imperative if we are to succeed in dealing with this scourge. Among the immediate challenges facing Nigeria and Africa today is resolving the many conflicts raging on the continent. Today, as many as 19 sub-Saharan countries are engaged in armed conflicts. The negative impact of these conflicts in human, social, economic and environmental destruction does not need to be described here. Nigeria and indeed the entire West African subregion have devoted considerable human, material, political and diplomatic resources to the resolution of these crises in the subregion, starting with Liberia and subsequently Sierra Leone and Guinea-Bissau. Similarly, efforts are being made in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in Angola towards peaceful resolution of their conflicts. 10 Indeed, African leaders at the recent summit of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) in Algiers, and at the urging of the Nigerian delegation, agreed to declare next year as the Year of Peace, Security and Stability in Africa. By this declaration, we have dedicated ourselves to making the year 2000 the year when Africans direct all their efforts into effectively eliminating armed conflicts on their continent. We hope to build on the fresh momentum for peace occasioned by the budding peace initiatives in Congo, Sierra Leone, Eritrea, Ethiopia and Angola. We are also agreed on the overriding need to uphold codes of decency, ethics and minimum standards of decorum among African Governments and their leadership. Gone are the days when the OAU turned a blind eye to the excesses and abuses of power by member Governments. Forceful and undemocratic changes of Governments will no longer be overlooked or tolerated. We intend to condemn in absolute terms all violations of these codes and to ostracize their perpetrators. It is our duty and moral responsibility to treat our citizens decently and humanely. My country has always believed that the threat to international peace and security from any corner of the globe should be considered a threat to the peace and security of the world as a whole. While the maintenance of international peace and security remains the primary responsibility of the Security Council, the Charter provision for the complementary role of regional and subregional groups has also proved to be critical to the maintenance of peace at the regional and global levels. The establishment of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Monitoring Group (ECOMOG) is a clear testimony of our commitment to subregional peace. As the record shows, ECOMOG succeeded in putting an end to the Liberian war in 1997, reinstating the democratically elected President of Sierra Leone in 1998, and bringing about the current Peace Agreement for Sierra Leone signed in Lomé in July 1999. The time has come, however, for the Security Council to assume its full responsibility, specifically in Sierra Leone and other conflict flash points in Africa. For too long, the burden of preserving international peace and security in West Africa has been left almost entirely to a few States in our subregion. The non-implementation of the Peace Agreement and Nigeria's continual burden in Sierra Leone is unacceptably draining Nigeria financially. For our economy to take off, this bleeding has to stop. The United Nations needs to do more in providing logistics and financial support to assist regional peacekeeping and peace- building efforts, as well as enhancing the welfare of refugees worldwide without discrimination. My delegation believes that it has never been the purpose of the United Nations Organization to prescribe democracy and change for its members and yet make little or no progress in the democratization of its own organs, such as the Security Council. My delegation accordingly urges the General Assembly, during this session, to conclude deliberations and reach agreement on the modalities for the reform and expansion of the Security Council so that the Millennium Assembly will adopt them next year — and not later. How can the United Nations continue to perpetuate and justify a situation where Africa is the only continent without a permanent seat in the Security Council? In order to promote reform and democratization of the Security Council, Africa, with 53 Member States, should be allocated at least two permanent seats — commensurate not only with the continent's size and population, but with its track record also of contributing to the maintenance of international peace and security. I wish to reaffirm our belief that the United Nations is the most universal body ever designed for collectively resolving humankind's common problems. Our Organization has come a long way since its establishment 54 years ago. Although created in a different era and under different circumstances, and in spite of numerous constraints, the United Nations has continuously sought to adapt itself to the changes in the international political arena. It has been able to accomplish this to some degree, but it remains an institution whose working methods, procedures and administrative structure have in many respects become outdated. Yet the world as we know it today without the United Nations would be inconceivable. For it has come to symbolize hope for a better and more secure future for many, particularly in the developing areas of the world. Indeed, though a majority of our countries could not be members when the Organization was created, we are today its strongest defenders and advocates of the ideals for which it stands. We believe in the family of nations, and within that family the strong members have the responsibility to protect and strengthen the weaker members. At the close of the twentieth century and the beginning of the third millennium, there is a need for stock-taking and for proper assessment of the implementation of previous resolutions emanating especially from the major world summits and conferences which took place in this decade. Such an effort would bring us closer to the realization of the purposes and objectives of our Organization. In this regard, I stand before the Assembly and pledge Nigeria's continued contributions and positive commitment to the ideals of the Charter of the United Nations.  On behalf of President Ahmad Tejan Kabbah, the Government and people of Sierra Leone, and on my own personal behalf, I would like to congratulate Mr. Gurirab most heartily on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. This is the last session before the end of this century and today we have only 92 days until the beginning of a new millennium. We welcome Mr. Gurirab’s unanimous election to preside over this body. With his long experience, both in the public service of his country and in the international arena, I have no doubt that he will be able to steer the deliberations of the fifty-fourth session to a successful conclusion. I want to assure him of my delegation’s full support and cooperation during his tenure of office. The affairs that confront us as a country continue to cause problems all over the globe. We are faced with situations that we cannot completely handle. Permit me to convey the thanks and appreciation of my Government to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and to his staff for their dedicated service to the United Nations in the never-ending quest to attain international peace and security. Mr. Annan has spared no efforts in drawing the attention of the international community, as well as that of the Security Council, to the tragic situation in Sierra Leone, stressing the urgent need for resources to sustain the Lomé Peace Agreement, recently signed between the Government of Sierra Leone and the Revolutionary United Front (RUF), and the need to send an appreciable contingent of peacekeepers and United Nations military observers to my country. The rebel war has gone on for a long time. Its intensification culminated in the invasion of the capital, Freetown, by the RUF/Armed Forces Revolutionary Council junta on 6 January 1999. I have no doubt that many members must have watched, heard or read of the ensuing mayhem, even though those ghastly events were overlooked because of the focus of the international media and, indeed, of the international community on 37 Kosovo. There was a time when we felt that the international community had abandoned us to our fate. Our people have gone through a very difficult and devastating period, covering more than eight years. We are now ready to put that nightmare behind us, to move forward and to do so quickly. The most important element in this is the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration programme, under the supervision of United Nations peacekeepers and observers and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Monitoring Group (ECOMOG). My Government therefore welcomes the eighth report of the Secretary-General on Sierra Leone to the Security Council. Among other things, the report recommends the deployment of sufficient numbers of peacekeepers and observers, as well as support staff. The Secretary-General stresses the urgent need for the mobilization of adequate resources into a special trust fund for this purpose. My delegation welcomes with gratitude the contributions of the Governments of the United Kingdom and Canada and the World Bank to the trust fund, and the recent recommendation of the Secretary- General to the Security Council to deploy up to 6,000 peacekeepers and observers. The need for an early decision on this cannot be overemphasized. A special conference is to take place shortly in Washington, D.C., for pledges to the fund and for other post-conflict programmes, including humanitarian assistance, the welfare of refugees and the welfare of children associated with the war. I would like to thank all our friends in the donor community who will be participating in that meeting and to plead with them to donate generously. Since the signing of the Lomé Agreement, the peace has been generally holding. There have been a few severe hiccups, but because of the determination of all to move forward, we have been able to contain the situation. The war went on for a long time; the rebels were used to obtaining everything they needed by the use of force. Since the Agreement, they have simply been waiting for the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration programme to commence. The delay in implementing this could be a factor in the restlessness observed in some elements from time to time. It is a dangerous void. The programme itself is under the chairmanship of our President, and because of the importance that our people attach to it, the civilian population has established a fund that is receiving modest donations from an already traumatized and war-weary people. Unfortunately, the anxiety and enthusiasm of our people have yet to be matched by those of the international community. The speed and the extent of interventions in Bosnia and in Kosovo, and more recently in East Timor, clearly demonstrate the capacity of the international community to stop human suffering when it is willing to do so. Our people have been baffled at the delay in implementing the Sierra Leone programme. Although the heinous atrocities committed in Sierra Leone by the RUF and its collaborators barely received attention from the international community, various human rights groups denounced the United Nations for signing the Lomé Peace Agreement with a reservation on amnesty provision. May I at this stage appeal to the international community not to do anything that would adversely affect the implementation of the Peace Agreement. For the average Sierra Leonean, the Peace Agreement was a bitter pill to swallow, but an essential pill to end the atrocities in the country. However, in order to ensure accountability, a truth and reconciliation commission was provided for in the agreement. It may need to be backed by an international inquiry body, such as has been proposed by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. Once again I would like to put on record my country’s indebtedness and gratitude to the member States of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), and four countries in particular — Nigeria, Guinea, Ghana and Mali — which contributed troops to the ECOWAS Monitoring Group (ECOMOG). As a new millennium dawns, the problems facing my country — and indeed many developing countries — are multiple; not least is the problem of finding a consistent set of policies and institutions that will enable us to have sustainable economic growth. Coupled with this is the fact that newly elected democratic Governments like ours are facing the paradox of how to sustain democracy in an environment where hard economic decisions are needed. In an increasingly shrinking world, the problems of developing countries, including those of Sierra Leone, ought to be seen as global problems. 38 The impact of these problems is felt by all in the form of environmental devastation, global warming, economic migrations and conflict, both local and regional. These problems affect the developed world in the form of increased immigration, greater welfare bills, slower economic growth and increased defence budgets, due to greater instability in the third world and the increased need for conflict resolution and prevention. In these circumstances, the continuing decline in the levels of development assistance has not helped the African situation. Globalization cannot be effected as a “one-way street” where all the vehicles travel North, leaving only exhaust fumes in the South. A level playing field is required, and this cannot be achieved with Africa’s heavy debt burden. Sierra Leone welcomes the 1999 Cologne Debt Initiative, which enhances the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative framework for debt relief. We agree that further efforts are needed for greater focus on the priority objective of poverty reduction. At the same time, my delegation hopes that agreement will soon be reached to shorten the period during which countries can qualify to be part of the HIPC Debt Initiative framework. With the cold war over, mankind had looked forward to a period of peace and universal development. But, as the British Foreign Secretary Robin Cook observed at the recent Security Council meeting on trafficking in small arms, small arms have caused more death and destruction in recent times than weapons of mass destruction. Indeed, my delegation agrees with the general view that the illegal arms trade is as dangerous as drugs, both serving as instruments of destruction of civilian lives and of socio- economic structures. The proliferation of trade in light weapons, financed by cash from the sale of precious minerals, such as diamonds and gold, is at the core of Africa’s conflicts and their prolongation. My delegation therefore welcomes the recent decision of the Security Council on this nefarious trade. We call on the international community to support the Security Council decision so as to effectively prevent the availability and flow of arms to conflict areas. The decision should not be left to the merchants of death, whose only interest is money, by whatever means. The United Nations, despite its occasional imperfectability, remains an essential institution for moving international relations towards cooperative security. Its operational and procedural capabilities need to be strengthened for the next century. My Government fully supports the Declaration of Algiers, adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity, meeting in Algeria from 12-14 July 1999. The Declaration called, inter alia, for the democratization of international relations, the democratization of the United Nations and the Security Council and the recognition of Africa’s legitimate position in this Organization. My Government also reinforces its belief in the Harare Declaration, calling for the unconditional allocation of two permanent Security Council seats to Africa.   First of all, I would like to warmly congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly and to wish you every success in this difficult office. I should also like to thank Foreign Minister Opertti for his tireless dedication in successfully presiding over the fifty-third session of the General Assembly. I welcome Kiribati, Nauru and Tonga, with which Germany has long enjoyed friendly ties, as new Members of the world Organization. I endorse the statement of my Finnish colleague, Tarja Halonen, on behalf of the European Union. This session of the General Assembly is the last in this “century of extremes”, as the British historian Eric Hobsbawm called the century now drawing to a close. That is reason enough to take stock. Since its foundation, the United Nations has greatly enhanced relations between peoples. The development of international law, protection of human rights, decolonization, worldwide humanitarian and disaster aid, arousing awareness of the great problems facing mankind, such as population growth, poverty and the global environmental crisis — all of this would be inconceivable without the United Nations. There is no alternative to the United Nations objectives and values — peace, human rights, freedom, justice and development — and they have gained worldwide recognition, even if, unfortunately, they are not always respected everywhere. Nevertheless, even after more than 50 years, there is still a long way to go before they are universally respected and implemented. Despite all its efforts, the international community has not yet succeeded in ridding our planet of war, oppression, tyranny, expulsion and grave human rights violations, including genocide. At the close of this century, the United Nations and its Member States are unable to fully master their core task, namely, safeguarding peace and security. The great hope that following the end of the East-West conflict the era of multilateral cooperation and worldwide rule of law would dawn has not yet come to fruition. Today the question of peacekeeping must be considered under conditions very different to those during the United Nations early years. First, most conflicts today are internal rather than international, as in earlier times. Secondly, the role of the nation State has been considerably relativized by the increased importance of human rights and the globalization of the economy and society. Against this background, the question of peacekeeping arises more and more in an area of tension between traditional State sovereignty and protection of human rights. What is to be done when entire States collapse and the civilian population is massacred in never-ending civil wars from all sides? What if ethnic tensions in a State are partly provoked by criminal Governments, which then respond with pogroms, mass expulsions and mass murders, even genocide? Should the United Nations then regard State sovereignty as more important than protection of individuals and their rights? Rwanda, Kosovo and East Timor are dramatic examples of this. In many ways, therefore, the Kosovo conflict represents a turning point. The international community could no longer tolerate a State waging war against its own people and using terror and expulsion as a political instrument. As Secretary-General Kofi Annan said in his brilliant and trail-blazing speech to the fifty-fifth session of the Commission on Human Rights, no Government has the right to use the cover of the principle of State sovereignty to violate human rights. Non-interference in internal affairs must no longer be misused as a shield for dictators and murderers. The World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna reaffirmed this in 1993, with the approval of all United Nations Members States, with the words: “the promotion and protection of all human rights is a legitimate concern of the international community”. (Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, I, para. 4) However, the Kosovo conflict also marks a change of direction in the development of international relations. How will the international community decide in the future — this question has just been raised once more in East Timor — when it comes to preventing massive human rights violations against an entire people? Two developments are conceivable. A practice of humanitarian interventions could evolve outside the United Nations system. This would be a very problematic development. The intervention in Kosovo, which took place in a situation where the Security Council had tied its own hands after all efforts to find a peaceful solution had failed, was intended to provide emergency assistance and, ultimately, to protect the displaced Kosovo Albanians. The unity of the European States and the Western Alliance, as well as various Security Council resolutions, were of crucial significance here. However, this step, which is only justified in this special situation, must not set a precedent for weakening the United Nations Security Council's monopoly on authorizing the use of legal international force. Nor must it become a licence to use external force under the pretext of humanitarian assistance. This would open the door to the arbitrary use of power and anarchy and throw the world back to the nineteenth century. The only solution to this dilemma, therefore, is to further develop the existing United Nations system in such a way that in the future it is able to intervene in good time in cases of very grave human rights violations, but not until all means of settling conflicts peacefully have been exhausted and — this is a crucial point — within a strictly limited legal and controlled framework. In the twenty-first century the individual and his rights must take a more prominent place alongside the rights of States in the concept of security as defined by the international community. The reform of the Security Council, the central body for safeguarding world peace, must be oriented towards this principle. The Security Council is, in fact, authorized to act, and able to do so, where peace or security are at risk due to internal developments. This has been demonstrated by a long chain of decisions, from the apartheid resolution to the interventions in Iraq, Bosnia and Haiti. However, in Rwanda, Kosovo and the Congo, decision making in the Security Council was blocked, thus rendering it unable to live up to its responsibilities enshrined in the United Nations Charter, with disastrous results for the peoples in question. These conflicts are a pressing reason, particularly in view of the important Millennium General Assembly, to finally carry out the long-overdue substantial reform of the Security Council. The Security Council must be adapted to the new realities of the global political situation. It must have a more representative composition and, above all, it must be equipped to react to the crises and conflicts of today. Reform must involve enlargement to include both more permanent and non-permanent members, as well as a strengthening of its decision-making powers. As the Assembly knows, Germany has for some time now expressed its willingness to assume more and lasting responsibility in this connection. We stand by this unreservedly. In the debate on reform we must not avoid the issue of the permanent members' right of veto, a question of key importance for the Security Council's capability to act. The right of veto is regarded by many as outdated in its current form. However, it is a situation with which we have to reckon internationally for a long time to come. How then can decision-making in the Security Council be made more efficient? According to the Charter, the Security Council acts with the mandate, and on behalf, of all United Nations Member States. But hitherto they have not been entitled to learn why a State has exercised its right of veto. This is not only neither democratic nor transparent, but also makes it easier for States to veto a draft resolution unilaterally for national rather than international interests. The introduction of an obligation for a State to explain to the General Assembly why it is vetoing a draft resolution would make it more difficult to do so and thus bring about substantial progress towards using the right of veto more responsibly. Why should not the General Assembly assume more responsibility in the future, too? A second approach to making the international peacekeeping system more efficient would be via Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter, namely by strengthening the regional security systems and redistributing tasks and areas of responsibility among them and the United Nations. It is becoming clear that the regional organizations could be allocated an even greater implementation role. This would also foster the capabilities of regional organizations to engage in security cooperation, as well as their collaboration with the United Nations. However, the primacy of the Security Council remains absolutely essential. Without reforms in the area of peacekeeping, the Security Council will be circumvented more and more frequently, resulting in the erosion of the Security Council and, ultimately, of the entire United Nations system. The United Nations, one of civilization's greatest achievements this century, as well as the values and principles it represents, would thus be at risk of subsiding into insignificance. We must prevent that. 12 The disaster in East Timor is currently demonstrating how necessary close cooperation is between a Security Council capable of taking action and the countries in the region. The Security Council's mandate to send a multilateral peacekeeping force must be fully implemented. Indonesia must now cooperate closely with the United Nations Mission and do everything in its power to guarantee its success. The bloodshed must end. The victims must be helped. Those displaced must be able to return home safely. Germany has already provided humanitarian and food aid. We will send a medical corps to assist the peacekeeping troops and make further contributions towards rebuilding the destroyed country. I am confident that our Parliament will lend this plan its full backing. In Africa, the Great Lakes region, the Congo and Sierra Leone have for many years been the scene of terrible wars, mass murders, destruction and much suffering on the part of refugees. The Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and its Monitoring Group (ECOMOG) have done much to contain and resolve these conflicts. However, these organizations also need the support of the United Nations, in Sierra Leone, in the Congo and, in particular, in the conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea. Both parties to the conflict must observe the agreements concluded and work closely together with the United Nations and the OAU so that the peace process now begun can be brought to a successful conclusion. The international community must focus on the causes rather than merely the symptoms of wars and conflicts in the context of multilateral peacekeeping. Secretary-General Kofi Annan rightly called for a “culture of prevention” to be developed in order to prevent the outbreak of wars and avert natural disasters more effectively in future. Everyone knows how difficult the transition from the “culture of reaction” to the “culture of prevention” will be. It takes a lot of persuading to summon up the political and economic will for measures intended to prevent something which we hope will never happen. However, on financial grounds and, above all, on humanitarian grounds, it is our duty and responsibility to revise our thinking here. Progress is urgently required in four areas. First, we must move on from early warning to early response. The United Nations has considerable resources at its disposal for preventive diplomacy, which must be used even more. There is also a great potential for synergy in cooperation with non-governmental organizations. Secondly, peacekeeping operations must be carried out before conflicts erupt. The United Nations mission in Macedonia has set a standard in this respect. Thirdly, disarmament and the non-proliferation of means of mass destruction are in need of fresh political impetus. It is essential that the Geneva negotiations gain momentum, particularly in the fields of global nuclear disarmament and the verification of biological weapons, and in the implementation of the Chemical Weapons Convention. Furthermore, Germany advocates the adoption of a convention on preventing the illegal transfer of small arms worldwide. Fourthly, peace-building is a prevention task of growing importance. With the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK), the United Nations is facing one of the most comprehensive tests in its history. Building public order by creating an efficient judicial system and quickly sending the pledged international police units is now crucial. Since the United Nations began incorporating national police units in the international standby system, they have been able to act more swiftly. We must continue along this path. Protection of human rights and the growing democratization of States form the basis for a preventive peace policy and civil conflict management. It is a historical fact that democracies with a well-developed civil society hardly ever wage war against each other. Lasting economic success cannot be achieved in the globalized information society of tomorrow without good governance founded on human rights, the separation of powers and a functioning legal and constitutional framework. In the field of human rights, welcome progress has been made towards broadening the legal basis for international relations, particularly during the last year. The detention of Pinochet and the indictment of Milosevic by the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia are milestones along the path towards creating a world in which the rule of law prevails. In future, dictators and perpetrators of human rights violations will no longer be able to rely on not being called to account for their actions. This must also apply to the murderers of Dili and those who issued the orders. Just like everywhere else in the world, internal peace is contingent upon justice. The adoption of the Statute of the International Criminal Court represented a quantum leap in the 13 development of international law. I call upon all States to respect the integrity of the Rome Statute, to sign it and to swiftly ratify it, so that the Court can commence work next year. Germany is doing all it can to bring about progress in the following fields of human rights. The heinous crimes of child trafficking and child prostitution must be banned throughout the world, as must the use of child soldiers. In the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the involvement of children in armed conflicts, the age limit must be raised to 18. In many countries women are still largely without rights and protection and subjected to discrimination and violence. This is an unacceptable injustice. Unfortunately, our world is still a long way from genuine equality, even with regard to fundamental rights. We must therefore aim to adopt the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against Women. In our view, the death penalty cannot be justified either ethically or legally. Together with its European partners, Germany will therefore continue to vigorously work towards ensuring the implementation of the joint resolution on abolishing the death penalty. Protection of press freedom must be improved. The freedom to inform is a reliable gauge of respect for human rights. Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights guarantees the right to freedom of opinion. However, censorship, intimidation and reprisals are the order of the day in many countries. It is particularly shocking that year after year dozens of journalists are killed while on assignment. The United Nations should take a closer look at this issue and consider practical solutions as well as enhance legal protection for journalists. To this end we will shortly be extending invitations to a conference to be held in Germany. The United Nations third major task alongside peacekeeping and promoting human rights in the coming century will be to bring about a reconciliation between rich and poor countries. The tenth Human Development Report of the United Nations Development Programme came to the sad conclusion that globalization has further widened the gap between rich and poor countries. The international community must endeavour to counter this trend. The development of the poorer and the poorest countries must not be left to the invisible hand of the global market. The individual, not the market, must be the focus of the globalization debate. This will also require greater steering at the political level. The rich countries have a responsibility to help poor countries take advantage of globalization and enable them to have a fairer share of the world economy by assisting them with internal reforms and by opening up markets. Within the framework of its European Union and Group of 8 presidencies, Germany launched substantial initiatives, which must be further developed in the form of the 1999 Köln Debt Initiative and the commencement of negotiations on a follow-up arrangement for the Lomé Convention. Development cooperation in the broadest sense must become one of the United Nations core tasks to a greater degree than hitherto. Science and technology are geared far too much to the problems of rich countries. Why do we not make greater use of the United Nations framework to build bridges here? The economist Jeffrey Sachs made the interesting suggestion, for example, that a millennium vaccine fund could be established, with guaranteed markets in the future for vaccines against tropical viruses such as tuberculosis, malaria and, above all, AIDS. Furthermore, in the context of the emergence of a global knowledge society, the international regime for the protection of intellectual property must be revised in order to ensure that the world’s poor do not lose a large part of their rights and freedoms in the near future. Rich and poor countries should get together with one another more frequently to discuss such proposals. During its presidency of the Group of Eight, Germany made a start by meeting the non-aligned countries and the Group of 77. The destruction of the environment has long since ceased to be a soft issue, but, rather, has become a very hard question which will have an increasingly strong impact on international security. According to the new study by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), global warming and water shortages will be the biggest problems facing humanity in the coming century. UNEP also rightly draws attention to the close connection between environmental destruction, poverty and excessive consumption. The deadlock in the climate protection negotiations must finally be overcome and the Kyoto Protocol implemented. The destruction of the rain forest must be stopped and further desertification prevented, and we must halt the squandering of our planet’s natural resources and switch to renewable energy as quickly as possible. The world does not have much time left to 14 remap a course towards sustainability. This will also require a much more active population policy, including a long-term strategy to deal with the ageing of our world’s population. The International Plan of Action on Ageing, adopted in 1982, is in need of urgent revision. We intend to hold a ministerial conference in Germany on this issue under the auspices of the Economic Commission for Europe. With the leap into the next millennium, the nation State principle will continue to diminish in importance. It will no longer be possible to find answers to major global problems within the framework of the traditional nation state. Rather, this will take place in a strengthened international structure and with a transfer of power to international organizations, with the United Nations at their head. This will entail a transformation of traditional power into justice, the reconciliation of interests and a greater role for civil society in the international political system, with the ever-greater involvement of representatives of civil society and industry. Reaching agreement on minimum standards with regard to social issues — on the issue of child labour, for example — will be possible in many cases only in a global context. I support the proposal put forward by Secretary-General Kofi Annan that a global pact on common values and principles be concluded within the framework of a public/private partnership, between the United Nations and major companies, in order to lend the law of the market a human face. The United Nations must become the core of effective global governance. Strengthening the United Nations, which must begin by guaranteeing its financial basis, is therefore one of Germany’s most important foreign policy objectives. During the past 50 years, and for the first time in its history, Germany has been opting wholeheartedly for integration into multilateral structures, thereby achieving democracy, freedom and reunification. Today, out of a sense of deep conviction and historical responsibility, our country is committed to peaceful reconciliation of interests and to multilateralism. We are taking this conviction with us to our old and new capital, Berlin. In the international State system of tomorrow the answer to the challenges of globalization will come from multilateralism alone. Our world will always be plural, and no form of unilateralism can therefore work in the long run. For that reason, the twenty-first century, with its more than 6 billion people and their States, will need a United Nations that is capable of taking action. The United Nations and its Members can therefore be certain that we Germans will be their staunchest allies in the efforts to strengthen the United Nations. At the outset, it gives me great pleasure to extend to you, Sir, and to your friendly country my sincere congratulations upon your election as President of the General Assembly. I am fully confident that you will steer the work of this important session ably and effectively. I would also like to express my appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Uruguay, President of the General Assembly at its fifty-third session, for his wise conduct of the business of that session. It also gives me pleasure on this occasion to salute the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and his efforts to maintain the role of the international Organization, improve its performance, increase its efficiency and restore its credibility and effectiveness. My pleasure is all the greater in welcoming the Republics of Kiribati and Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga to membership of the United Nations. The fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly is being held at a historic juncture that comes only once every 100 — indeed, every 1,000 — years. This is the last session of the General Assembly before the end of the twentieth century and of the second millennium since the birth of Christ. That century and that millennium have embodied a combination of mankind's greatest achievements as well as catastrophic tragedies. Yes, the second millennium has witnessed momentous events. During the last century of this millennium, these events have taken place at a pace faster than any recorded history of humanity. The outgoing century has become a catalogue of contradictions, some of which bear testimony to mankind's genius and others to its ignominies and immoralities. All our diverse civilizations, without exception, have produced warmongers and destructive tyrants. They have also produced great leaders, advocates of peace, inventors, creative artists, scientists, explorers and statesmen who provided good leadership and gave wise counsel. According to the Gregorian calendar, we are at the close of a century and a millennium. By the Hijri calendar, we are in the fifteenth century after the migration of the Prophet Muhammad, who revealed to the world a noble religion and gave it an enlightened civilization. We in Egypt are approaching the end of the seventh millennium in the life of an ancient country; a country that is as old as history itself; a country that contributed to the making and recording of history. Humanity's attainments at this time and in this age are not the fruit of the achievements of the twentieth century alone; rather, they are the result of the accumulated achievements made since the beginning of time. The Egyptians excelled at science and engineering and were the first to profess monotheism. The Babylonians gave the world the alphabet. The Phoenicians mastered navigation. The Arab civilization flourished in al-Andalus, preserved Greek philosophy and added to it. The Islamic civilization in Syria, Iraq, Egypt and Turkey made great contributions to all aspects of life. The Renaissance in the Italian city-States followed. Then came the French Revolution, advocating the ideals of liberty, equality, and fraternity. The industrial revolution started in Britain. America ushered in the computer, information and communication revolutions and the age of space exploration and atomic energy. I would also refer here to the profound philosophies and great civilizations that flourished in China, India, Japan and elsewhere. This is a necessary statement of fact as we bid farewell to this century and this millennium. Everyone must be aware that we are all partners in the creation of the contemporary genius. Yet the future is our real concern. The future brings with it new challenges in the fields of science and information; economic and monetary matters; culture, politics and security; and the conduct of relations between peoples and societies. These are some of the challenges of the coming century. To this list must be added the legacy of the unresolved problems of the twentieth century. The end of a century or a millennium does not mean the end or solution of existing problems. Indeed, it is a historical juncture and will undoubtedly mark new challenges. Problems, like progress, are characterized by continuity. This makes it necessary to agree on a new forward-looking agenda that anticipates the future, its expectations and risks — an agenda that will prepare us to solve existing and persistent problems. Here, I hasten to add that new breaths of fresh air have begun to blow in various parts of the world. They, too, will accompany us into the coming century. Africa continues to suffer from armed and ethnic conflicts and the disruption of development efforts. Yet a serious African policy is being developed to put an end to these conflicts and to achieve settlements on the basis of dialogue, national reconciliation and conciliation between neighbours. We also note that the African Summit held last June in Algiers decided that the countries whose 19 Governments had taken power by unconstitutional means must restore constitutional legitimacy before the convening of the next African Summit in the year 2000. The Fourth Extraordinary Summit of the Organization of African Unity, held in Syrte earlier this month, reaffirmed the continent's resolve to proceed on the path of unity through the speedy implementation of a treaty establishing the African Economic Community. On the Asian continent, the situation in the Korean peninsula and the question of Kashmir are still sources of tension and confrontation. Afghanistan remains a source of instability and tension and a haven for terrorism. Yet the Asian economies are showing signs of recovery and are preparing to compensate for the sacrifices that were made and the development efforts that were lost as a result of the financial crisis of 1997. As for East Timor, the popular consultation held last August reflected, in the words of the Secretary General, the will of the people of East Timor for self-determination without representing victory or defeat for any of the parties. This process could not have been successful without the bold initiative of President Habibie. While calling for a peaceful and orderly transition of power, Egypt pays tribute to the wise decision of the Indonesian Government to accept the deployment of an international force in the territory. This is a responsible and wise course of action that will restore calm and order there. Europe was the origin and theatre of the two World Wars that were bitterly experienced by humanity in its long history. There, the hateful practices of ethnic cleansing are again looming on the horizon. Yet, we have seen the international community take a clear and firm stand against such practices and against attacks on the identity of peoples and nations. We have also witnessed some progress in the constitutional dialogue that aims at resolving the question of Northern Ireland, the oldest contemporary crisis on the European continent. In the Middle East, the peace process is now heading towards a new and positive stage. It is our hope that this will lead to a comprehensive, just, and peaceful settlement that will establish the Palestinian State, put an end to the occupation of the Syrian and Lebanese territories and ensure security for all. Thus, an end will be put to this conflict and its files will hopefully be closed. Despite its centrality, the Arab-Israeli conflict is not the only problem in that vast region. Other problems include that of Western Sahara in northern Africa, the islands of the United Arab Emirates in the Gulf and the question of Sudan. The latter is high on the list of priorities of Egyptian diplomacy. For two years now, we have been making intensive efforts and establishing contacts with both the Sudanese Government and the opposition in order to achieve comprehensive national reconciliation and to preserve the unity, identity and territorial integrity of that brotherly country. We have been coordinating with Libya, the members of Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) and the forum of the partners of IGAD to ensure that all the efforts undertaken in this regard are made in a concerted manner. The situation of Iraq raises numerous questions. The matter does not have a bearing on the Government of Iraq alone. Rather, it pertains to the Iraqi people, their plight and the suffering of their children. An objective and positive review of the status of this important brotherly country has become necessary. This review should proceed from the premise that there are no eternal sanctions and that people have the right to resume normal life and to surpass the errors of the past and move to the bright horizons of the future. In so doing, they must fully abide by the accepted rules of international legality like all other people. Indeed, Iraqi policy was erroneous in its invasion of Kuwait. A mistake, however, cannot be corrected by a policy which will lead to the collapse of an entire society or cause a whole country to implode. Therefore, Egypt is closely following the current efforts aimed at the suspension by the Security Council of the sanctions within the context of an understanding with the Iraqi Government and under the Council's supervision. This should be the first step towards the lifting of the sanctions in accordance with paragraph 22 of resolution 687 (1991), all of whose paragraphs ought to be implemented in full. I stated earlier that despite the high hopes and great expectations pinned on the new century, this historical juncture does not in and of itself bring the existing problems to an end. I am duty-bound to put before you Egypt's belief that certain major questions must be given top priority on the world agenda. These are: international peace and security, the question of the elimination of weapons of mass destruction, particularly nuclear weapons, eradication of poverty, integration of the developing countries into the world economy on an equitable basis, dialogue between and complementarity of civilizations, and the question of terrorism. These questions transcend time and space in our contemporary 20 world. Their agreed solutions must be the result of our collective thinking and collective action. If democracy has become a necessary pillar in the formation of the political framework of the societies of the future, it must equally constitute the framework of international relations. Thus, it is necessary that the future world order be based on consensus, on the convergence of interests, on the acceptance of the right of others to make initiatives, and on appreciation for the premises from which they proceed. All this must be debated in a democratic spirit here in the General Assembly, within its new and evolving role. What is indeed necessary is for us to arrive at a consensus on the regulation of international life. This desired consensus must respect the values, norms and principles that are deeply rooted in humanity's conscience. This consensus must achieve the necessary harmony between individual freedoms, on the one hand, and the collective rights to security, stability and development, on the other hand. It must foster a creative dialogue and a positive interaction between policies, cultures and civilizations, as it must refute the theory of “The Clash of Civilizations” and minimize the possibility of the clash of interests. We believe that the world, particularly at this promising stage, can ill afford a new conflict or a new cold war. Those who propagate the theory that Islam could become the main threat to the West following the collapse of Communism ignore the fact that Islam is a philosophy and a way of life. It is not an artificial concoction that carries within it the seeds of its demise, as Communism did. They wilfully disregard history's greatest lesson: interaction among diverse cultures enriches all cultures, elevates all civilizations and adds to their vitality and prosperity. It is only logical for most societies in our world today not to accept the imposition of a single view on world problems. It is also logical for them to reject the view that the interests of a sole society should be given precedence over all others or that the considerations, capabilities and interests of a certain civilization should be forced on all other world civilizations. Therefore, Egypt supports the resolution adopted by the General Assembly last year, at Iran's initiative, proclaiming the year 2001 the United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations. Egypt also welcomes the Secretary-General's appointment of a special representative for this important subject. Addressing the question of dialogue among civilizations is not separate from addressing the question of terrorism. Some thinkers have attempted to brand a certain civilization and culture with that affront. The phenomenon of international terrorism is not linked to any particular civilization, culture or religion. It recognizes no boundaries and threatens all societies equally. It has become a grave danger that we must urgently combat and eradicate. We have seen acts of terrorism in all parts of the world with diverse cultures and civilizations, but the challenge is one and the same. The United Nations and many States have gone quite far in facing this phenomenon. However, the few scattered and isolated international conventions and resolutions that deal with it need an integrated framework to turn them into a binding legal code. This code should reflect the concerted efforts of the international community to combat and contain terrorism and to deprive it of any haven or financing. In this regard, Egypt renews the call of President Hosni Mubarak to convene an international summit under United Nations auspices. The summit, whose objective framework and timing must be agreed upon by consensus, would be mandated to codify the collective and organized will of the international community in dealing with terrorism and in providing the necessary action to combat and deter it. I would like to move to other, equally important, issues, among which are disarmament and the maintenance of international peace and security. In doing so, I must recall the need to observe the priorities established by the international community in 1978. Foremost among these priorities are nuclear disarmament and the elimination of other weapons of mass destruction. In this regard, there is a clear need to accelerate the process of nuclear disarmament at the unilateral and bilateral levels as well as within the Conference on Disarmament. There is also a need to speedily achieve the universality of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). These considerations impelled the States of the Alliance of the New Agenda: South Africa, Brazil, Mexico, Ireland, Sweden, New Zealand and my country, Egypt, to adopt a joint declaration in June 1998. The Alliance tabled a resolution, which was adopted by the General Assembly last year by a large majority, calling for the adoption of serious and concrete steps in this 21 regard. The members of the Alliance will continue their efforts during this session. On the regional level, I have repeatedly stated that the elimination of weapons of mass destruction, which is the optimum way to ensure the security of the Middle East region as a whole, can be achieved only within a comprehensive framework applicable to all without exception. Peace cannot endure with an imbalance of power or a discrepancy in rights and obligations in matters pertaining to national security. In this regard, all the States of the Middle East, with the sole exception of Israel, have acceded to the NPT and the international regime for the inspection of nuclear facilities. This constitutes a source of constant tension. It negates to a large extent the effectiveness of the international instruments on non-proliferation and arms control. It will lead to an arms race. It is illogical to give a special privilege or a certain exception to only one State in as vast and sensitive a region as the Middle East, and under unacceptable pretexts. Sound logic necessitates an end to this exception and calls firmly for Israel's accession to the NPT. This subject will force itself on the 2000 NPT Review Conference. The States parties to the Treaty agreed in 1995 on an integrated and comprehensive package to enhance the non- proliferation regime and achieve its universality. The extension of the Treaty was but one of the elements of that package. I would like to stress here the importance of giving top priority at the next Review Conference to crystallizing the serious steps for achieving the universality of the Treaty. The States parties to the Treaty must honour all the obligations and commitments made in 1995 without selectivity or discrimination. Egypt and many other States insist on that. Otherwise, we will reach a state, which has actually begun, of suspicion and lack of confidence. This will have a grave effect on the credibility of the NPT regime. It will weaken that regime considerably, making it possible to deviate from its provisions or make them subject to exceptions. Talking of regional security in the Middle East leads me to address the peace process. Egypt maintains, as it always has, that a comprehensive peace based on justice is the only durable and stable peace. This means Israel’s withdrawal from all Arab territories occupied in 1967, the establishment of a State of Palestine with Jerusalem as its capital, restoring the legitimate human and national rights of the Palestinian people and the achievement of security for all. The peace process must deal with all the problems in good faith and with courage. It must not postpone dealing with or negotiating any item or problem. The postponement or abandonment of problems is a postponement and abandonment of peace. This is dangerous and unacceptable and runs counter to the framework and spirit of peace. It might even postpone the establishment of normal relations between the Arab States and Israel. We had hoped that the Arab-Israeli conflict would come to an end before the end of the twentieth century. This hope is still alive, since the year 2000 is the last year of this century. This year we witnessed a human tragedy, the likes of which we thought was impossible given the progress that mankind has achieved before the advent of the twenty-first century. Here I refer to the tragedy of Kosovo. While welcoming the adoption by the Security Council of a resolution on the establishment of a Transitional Administration in Kosovo, we stress the need for learning from this tragedy so that succeeding generations will never witness its likes again. Allow me to address one aspect of this problem which pertains to our present discussion — the degree to which the rules of international legality, as represented by the United Nations, were observed in a situation that pertains to the maintenance of international peace and security. Here we find that the question of Kosovo was a unique case of international consensus and disagreement at one and the same time. There was a consensus on the need for immediate action to stop the grave crime of ethnic cleansing. At the same time there was disagreement on who had the right to act. There were different approaches, among which is the one we believe in — namely, that any international action must stem from the Security Council as the competent organ primarily responsible for the maintenance of international peace and security. If the Council were unable to do so, then the General Assembly would be the organ that must deal with any threats to international peace and security, as it represents the common interest of all its members. Our insistence, and that of many others on the essential role of the United Nations, has been reflected in the following significant message; that regardless of how the international order is described, as old or new, international participation in it must take place through the United Nations, particularly when the matter concerns the maintenance of international peace and security. 22 In this context, I would like to refer to the Secretary- General’s report on the work of the Organization and to his statement made last Monday, in which he reaffirmed the importance of strengthening the collective security system in a manner that would enable the international community to deal with crises before they spin out of control, and the primary role of the Security Council in this regard. The Secretary-General has put forward a number of innovative concepts to develop a “culture of prevention” of crises, among which is the concept of preventive diplomacy. Thus far, no agreement has been reached on the scope of the application of this concept since it was first dealt with in 1992 in “An Agenda for Peace”. They also include the concept of the preventive deployment of forces, which will raise numerous questions in view of its connection to the sovereignty of States. Also included is the call for humanitarian intervention and its scope, a suggested role for transnational corporations and the concept of the assessment of the security impact of development policies, which could open the door for new conditionalities if these ideas are not developed democratically, objectively and non-selectively. These ideas and suggestions deal with concepts that are not yet established. This makes it necessary to debate them in an international format characterized by the highest degree of openness and transparency. Their formulation and terms should be agreed upon by all. We propose officially – and we call upon the President of the General Assembly and the Secretary-General to take the necessary actions in this regard – to have the General Assembly, or a committee of the whole within it, debate these ideas and give them substance. They must be adopted by a consensus of all States, and the Secretary-General would be asked to present a report on the results of this debate to the General Assembly at its next session, in the light of which the Assembly would take a decision on his suggestions. The World Summit for Social Development held in Copenhagen made the eradication of poverty a top priority for international action, because it pertains to the stability of the international order and its credibility. Yet the increasing marginalization of the developing countries, particularly that of the least developed countries, most of which are in Africa, threatens to create new lines of confrontation between the North and the South. This confrontation would be fuelled by unjust economic, social and development considerations and standards, and it could negatively affect international stability. Egypt, the current Chair of the Group of 15, presented a paper to the eighty-seventh session of the International Labour Organization reflecting the views of the Group regarding the negative effects of globalization, the crisis of international markets and the concomitant increase in unemployment. All these matters must be taken into account in the implementation of the Copenhagen Programme of Action and the programmes of action of other major conferences. We also note that some developed countries have adopted protectionist measures under the pretext of protection of the environment, respect for human rights and labour standards. These policies deepen the imbalances in the international trading system. Here I must reaffirm the need for the developed countries to honour all their obligations under the Uruguay Round and the full implementation of the agreements and resolutions of that Round before engaging in any new negotiations to further liberalize international trade. I further reaffirm the importance of strengthening the role of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) at its tenth session, to be held in Bangkok, to achieve a balance between the interests of the developed and the developing countries. Here I must refer to the role of the international financial institutions. This question needs a conscientious review in the light of the current changes in the international economic arena. The review should make these institutions more responsive to the needs of comprehensive development. It should ensure the full participation of the developing countries in the making of decisions on the reform of the international financial system. In conclusion, we look forward to the new century with hope; yet the questions surrounding it abound, foremost of which is that two thirds of the people of the world live in a state of underdevelopment and suffering. How could we face the challenges of the wars that continue to rage, the continued flows of refugees, war crimes that continue to be perpetrated and the dire poverty of those who cannot have their daily bread or afford a school to educate their children or a hospital to treat them? Any talk about globalization must take all that into account. These were the challenges of the past. They are also the challenges of the present, and will be the challenges of the future. We will be able to face them only with a stronger will and a stronger commitment, with a more objective way of thinking and more effective mechanisms for action. In this way we will arrive at a new social contract, usher in a new economic era and forge a new security consensus for the world of tomorrow. 23   I would like to express my sincere congratulations, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session and to extend my best wishes for a successful conduct of the deliberations and work of this body. I wish also to thank your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, for his leadership and his personal contribution to the achievements of the fifty-third session. The United Nations was created over 50 years ago in specific political circumstances marked by enthusiasm brought about by the end of the Second World War. Its establishment was a very important step towards a new global order, although the political situation dominated by super-Power rivalry over next several decades prevented it from using its potential to the full. The current international political situation is much more propitious for pursuing the original purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter. Following the end of the bipolar division of the world, we have witnessed new political processes that have profoundly changed the political landscape. An ever- growing number of countries are embracing democratic principles and implementing them in practice. This should be emphasized, especially in a forum such as the General Assembly, because the spread of democracy gives momentum to the work of the United Nations and stimulates the expansion of its activities throughout the world. A growing number of countries are acknowledging their share of the global responsibility for a better life on our planet and for the wise exploitation of its resources. In this era of globalization and interdependence, the 6 United Nations plays a unique and irreplaceable role. Its fundamental and key tasks — safeguarding peace and security; promoting economic cooperation and social development, including poverty eradication; strengthening the role of international law; and protecting human rights — are even more relevant today than they were 54 years ago. The Slovak Republic is very much aware of this fact. One of the crucial issues in reforming the Organization and preparing it for the challenges that lie ahead is the reform of the Security Council. The Security Council is the symbol and pillar of the concept of collective security, designed in the aftermath of the most tragic conflict of this century in order to prevent its repetition. The fundamental political changes that have taken place in the world in the last 50 years represent a challenge to the future role of the Security Council and its legitimacy. We must draw lessons from past setbacks. Caused mostly by the divergent interests of major actors or by a lack of political will, they paralysed the Security Council, which remained inactive instead of taking effective action on behalf of the Member States. Otherwise, we risk the erosion of the authority of the Security Council and consequently of its central role in the maintenance of international peace and security. The United Nations cannot afford to let that happen, because there is no alternative to the concept of collective security as embodied in the United Nations Charter. The modern world needs a supreme security authority with unquestioned credibility. The key tasks of Security Council reform are to strengthen its representative character, improve the effectiveness and transparency of its decision-making process and working methods and, ultimately, enhance its legitimacy. To achieve this goal, it is necessary to reach the widest possible agreement on enlarging its membership and on the veto right, which plays a pivotal role in the overall reform of the Council. Unless the scope of application of the veto and its relationship to potential new members of the Security Council are clarified, it will be very difficult to proceed to the enlargement of the category of permanent members. Slovakia recognizes as legitimate the efforts of some countries, which, being capable of assuming a share of the gobal responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security, desire a position in an enlarged Security Council. At the same time, however, it is necessary to ensure the appropriate representation of the developing countries of Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean region, since those countries represent a significant majority of the United Nations membership. Regrettably, as the past six years of discussions in the Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council have shown, a fundamental divergence of views continues to exist with regard to enlarging the category of permanent members, thus making it very unlikely that concrete results will be achieved in the near future. We believe that in order to move ahead, we should proceed gradually rather than running in place in order to prevent the United Nations from “missing the boat” in our rapidly changing world. If there is no agreement on other categories of membership, Slovakia is ready, at this stage, to support expanding only the non-permanent category. The overall number of seats in the enlarged Security Council would then depend on the scenario eventually agreed on by Member States. Nevertheless, it should not exceed the range of 23 to 25 in order to preserve its capability to act promptly. I would like to point out that Slovakia is flexible in this regard. The expansion of the Security Council should also take into account an appropriate increase in the representation of the Eastern European regional Group, whose membership has more than doubled in recent years. Peacekeeping operations continue to be one of the key instruments available to the United Nations in the discharge of its primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. Nevertheless, in the light of the tragic experience of recent and still-raging conflicts, it is necessary to reinforce those mechanisms, which would allow the United Nations to more actively concentrate on preventing conflicts and addressing their causes rather than their consequences. An early- warning system should be further enhanced, and preventive diplomacy should play a more active role in potential conflict situations. Today’s conflicts have many dimensions, which must be addressed comprehensively. An integrated, multidimensional approach to peacekeeping and post- conflict peace-building must be taken if a conflict is to be resolved in a durable manner. It is important to ensure an effective coordination among the military, civilian and humanitarian components of multidisciplinary operations, which should be given adequate mandates and resources. 7 As time is a crucial factor in most cases of deployment of peacekeeping forces, Slovakia supports the efforts to enhance United Nations rapid-deployment capabilities through the United Nations standby arrangements system. Regional initiatives play an important role in this respect, and Slovakia has therefore joined the Central European Nations Cooperation in Peace Support, aimed at closer cooperation among several Central European States in the field of the preparation, training and participation of their armed forces in peacekeeping operations. Since its admission to the United Nations Slovakia has been contributing to a number of United Nations peacekeeping operations in Africa, Asia and Europe, including those in Angola, Rwanda, the border region of Uganda and Rwanda, Liberia, Sierra Leone, the Syrian Golan Heights, Jerusalem, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Eastern Slavonia. The Slovak Government has also recently decided to contribute an engineering unit to the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO). Slovakia thus ranks among the leading troop contributors in terms of the number of troops per capita. I would like to take this opportunity to assure the Assembly that Slovakia is determined to continue to support United Nations peacekeeping activities in all the main areas: troops, logistics and training. The active participation of the Slovak Republic in United Nations peacekeeping activities has proved that it has a responsible approach to the maintenance of international peace and security, and has logically led to the submission of its candidature for the non-permanent seat in the Security Council for the term 2000-2001. Through membership in the Security Council, Slovakia would like to prove that small countries, too, can make an important contribution to the resolution of conflicts and crises in the world. Kosovo is the most recent example of the tragic reality of the present-day Balkans, driven by violence and ethnic hatred, which is not only a product of the region’s complicated historical circumstances, but, above all, the result of human rights violations and of the misuse of ethnic differences to reach short-sighted political goals. Slovakia attaches great importance to the political resolution of the Kosovo conflict, and appreciates the efforts of the United Nations, the Secretary-General, the Contact Group dealing with the former Yugoslavia and regional organizations to this end. We welcomed with great hope the adoption of Security Council resolution 1244 (1999), aimed at creating conditions for building a democratic Kosovo based on respect for the human rights of all citizens, regardless of their ethnic origin and religion, and for all the principles enshrined in Article 2 of the United Nations Charter. Post-conflict peace-building in Bosnia and Herzegovina has proved that reconstruction of a conflict-torn society on a multi-ethnic basis is in no way an easy task. However, if new tragedies are to be prevented, the international community must give a hand to the people in that part of Europe in their quest for reconciliation and for building mutual trust. An important role in these efforts is to be played by the economic reconstruction and development of the entire Balkan region. In this connection, Slovakia welcomes and fully supports the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe. I believe it will open a new stage in the history of the region. The proof of the importance which the Slovak Republic attaches to securing stability in this part of Europe is the appointment of the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Slovakia, Mr. Eduard Kukan, as the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for the Balkans. A conference was held under his auspices in Bratislava, the capital of Slovakia, on the post-war reconstruction of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The conference clearly showed the direction which the international community and Yugoslav society should take if the country is to become a firm part of the community of nations in the Balkans, built on new foundations. The Slovak Republic considers a just peace in the Middle East to be an important component of global stability. For this reason, we welcomed the signing, on 4 September 1999, of a new agreement between Israel and the Palestinian Authority on the implementation of individual steps of the Wye Memorandum. At the same time, we hope that Israel, Syria and Lebanon will also renew their dialogues. Although certain issues remain to be resolved among the parties, we believe that a final agreement will eventually be reached and a permanent peace will be secured for the Middle East region. The continent of Africa is suffering from far too many conflicts, often fed by poverty and underdevelopment. Clearly, cooperation between the international community and African States is greatly needed in order to prevent and to address conflicts and to help Africa to create conditions for sustainable development. Slovakia shares the Secretary-General’s view, expressed in his report on Africa last year, that 8 Africans themselves must demonstrate the political will to respond to problems by peaceful means and to adhere to the rules of good governance through ensuring respect for human rights and the rule of law, strengthening democratization and promoting transparency in public administration. In the meantime, the assistance of the international community is important not only for the economic development of African States, but also to enable them to build their own capacity for conflict prevention and resolution. The African regional and subregional organizations, such as the Organization of African Unity, the Economic Community of West African States and the Southern African Development Community, should be given credit for the role they have played in the implementation of peace operations in several African countries, and should be provided with the necessary financial and material assistance. Slovakia is ready to contribute its share — for instance, by offering its Training Centre for Peacekeeping Operations, which has specific facilities for training engineering units. Another pressing problem is the prevention of the illicit flow of arms and military material into zones of conflict, and the enforcement of an effective implementation of the Security Council arms embargoes. The most disturbing fact is that the Security Council’s sanctions are violated mostly by non-African countries which have turned Africa into a store for all kinds of weapons. Slovakia firmly adheres to all Security Council decisions, including sanctions. We believe that Security Council sanctions committees should be actively engaged in ensuring the concerted efforts of all the actors concerned — Governments, international governmental and non-governmental organizations, private companies and leaders of opinion — in order to identify the sources of arms flows into zones of conflict and cut off military forces and rebel groups from their resources, thus eliminating their ability to wage war. I realize that the United Nations is not only a peacekeeper; it also has a role to play in the everyday lives of many people suffering from hunger, poverty, disease, illiteracy and backwardness. All of us are obligated to promote sustainable development and to protect the global environment and human rights. The best way to prevent and eliminate conflicts is to create conditions for a worthy life for every individual on this planet as well as friendly relations among nations based on the principles of equal rights, democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. Being a small country, the Slovak Republic does not always have means to resolve global issues comparable to those that some big countries have. But it compensates for this disadvantage with its determined and active approach to all the major problems that mankind is facing. As experience has shown, small and medium-sized countries can contribute significantly to the resolution of crises and conflicts. This may be due to the fact that these countries are not burdened with power interests and are capable of presenting and advocating solutions acceptable to all. Slovakia has already demonstrated its ability to be an active player in international relations. The United Nations and its Security Council are the forums in which we can put this valuable experience to the best use.   Mr. President, I have the pleasure of congratulating you on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty- fourth session. Confident that your experience and ability will strongly influence the successful outcome of the proceedings of this session, I assure you of my delegation's readiness to cooperate with you in fulfilling your task. I would like to avail myself of this opportunity to express my thanks to His Excellency Didier Opertti Badán, President of the General Assembly at its fifty-third session, for his contribution to the achievements and success of that session. It is also my pleasure to express appreciation for the efforts that Secretary-General Kofi Annan has exerted in order to enable the Organization to fulfil its role in promoting international peace and security and in furthering international cooperation. I also extend the sincere congratulations of the State of Bahrain to the Kingdom of Tonga, the Republic of Nauru and the Republic of Kiribati upon their admission to the United Nations. On 6 March 1999, the State of Bahrain announced to the people of Bahrain and to the world the sad news of the passing away of His Highness Shaikh ‘Isa Bin Salman Al- Khalifa, may God grant him peace and mercy. He was a great and humane emir who loved people and was loved by the people by virtue of the remarkable traits he exhibited, which are the embodiment of the Bahraini character: loyalty, tolerance and civility. He, may God bestow His mercy upon him, championed national independence, the Constitution, the consultative process and the erection of the State institutions and the rule of law. He championed development, comprehensive renaissance and diversification of the national economy. He championed Gulf cooperation and Arab solidarity through the most difficult times and situations. He championed peace and international cooperation and genuine friendship among all peoples. These causes were the legacy of the late emir, whose approach will continue to be the beacon that guides Bahrain as it moves forward along its national path and as it pursues Gulf cooperation, Arab solidarity, regional cooperation with neighbours and international cooperation with one and all. In view of this session’s special momentousness, as it is being held at a juncture between the end of a century and the beginning of a new millennium, it behoves us to pause and reflect on the experience of the United Nations over the last half century. It should again be emphasized that, as we approach the third millennium, we ought to direct our actions in consonance with the principles and purposes of the United Nations Charter, which are aimed at enhancing peace and economic and social development, in the interest of the world as a whole and on the basis of equality, justice and respect for law. The Organization’s experience of more than 50 years, with all its successes and setbacks in dealing with crises and in addressing the challenges facing the world, has demonstrated that the benefits of past experience should be taken into account as we prepare for the future. In this way we would be better equipped to contribute to the building of a new world and a brighter future and would be better committed to the United Nations. Some of that experience has proved that departure from the United Nations principles, Charter and resolutions has strained relations among many States and caused regional disputes and ethnic conflicts that have threatened security and stability in numerous regions of the world. Yet humanity has accomplished much during the last half century, particularly through United Nations involvement in the maintenance of international peace and security, sustainable development and international cooperation. Such United Nations endeavours deserve our appreciation and commitment so that we can alleviate the human suffering of those who are beset by poverty and lack of security, stability and the basic requirements of a life of dignity. 17 Hence, our common agreement on enhancing the vitally important role of the United Nations during the forthcoming millennium as the embodiment of the international community’s conscience and its hope of building a better world in which our common human aspirations, as enshrined in the Charter, can be realized. Bahrain’s experience on the Security Council during the past two years has demonstrated that small countries are capable of effectively contributing to the causes of international peace and security. That experience has also reaffirmed Bahrain’s convictions, most notably its adherence to the principles of the United Nations Charter and international legality, which reflect the will and desire of the international community to live in security, tolerance and peace. It has also confirmed the importance of strengthening the principles of equitable geographic representation and transparency as important values and principles in international relations. Such principles would enhance the Security Council’s role in maintaining peace and security and help develop its ability to function effectively. Therefore, it is essential that efforts be exerted to reform the Council so that it can adequately reflect political realities and cope with the changing international climate during the next century. The role of the Security Council in dealing with the questions of peace and security requires that the processes of peacekeeping and peace-building be interrelated in order to prevent the renewal of conflicts; hence Bahrain’s request for the convening of an open meeting during its term as President of the Council last December, to consider the relationship between peacekeeping and peace-building. The extensive participation of members of the Council and other Members of the United Nations bears witness to the conviction of many Member States that such linkage is essential for the integration of political action with action in the field of economic and social development. Bahrain’s enthusiasm and interest in taking part in joint efforts to reach solutions for issues of peace and security have been demonstrated by its active and constructive participation whenever the Security Council has dealt with such questions. By virtue of the expertise that it has gained, Bahrain will be active, both within its region and at the international level, in furthering the principles of security, peace and stability. Since the beginning of Bahrain’s modern revival, our country has been building a modern State and a developed civil society on the basis of developing, preparing and qualifying the individual to deal with the demands of our time and to participate positively in present and future transformation. As a result, Bahrain has been able to build an open and developed economy that has made it possible for the country to realize comprehensive and sustainable human development, as reflected in its remarkable ranking in the human development index for five consecutive years. This is also reflected in the reports of the United Nations Development Programme, whose contributions and efforts in the field of development in many States we commend. The State of Bahrain has long been aware of the importance of human development and has thus drawn up plans and policies for the development and utilization of the capabilities of Bahrainis in all fields. It has also enacted legislation encouraging women to join the workforce and to enter the labour market. Thus, the percentage of Bahraini women in the entire public sector labour force reached 33.5 per cent in 1998, and the total number of women in the private sector labour force has reached 20 per cent. The State of Bahrain takes pride in this achievement at the regional and international levels. It makes available equal opportunities to both men and women in the fields, inter alia, of education, health care and social welfare, as these are basic priorities of human rights for which Bahrain’s efforts have been applauded by United Nations human rights bodies and experts. In its new era under the leadership of its emir, His Highness Shaikh Hamad Bin Isa Al-Khalifa, Bahrain will continue on its course, which has allowed it to assume a prominent place economically and socially, thereby becoming an example of progressive development that takes into account both the global dimension and the preservation of its heritage and traditions. Over the last two decades, the Gulf region has witnessed serious and painful events, the ramifications of which continue to pose a threat to the security and stability of this vital region, which is an important hub for world trade and for mutual, beneficial exchange between various nations of the world. Those events have demonstrated that the maintenance and preservation of regional security can be based only on respect for and strict observation of principles that the State of Bahrain has always advocated, most notably respect for the status quo and the inviolability of established boundaries. Relations among countries of the region should be based on the principles of good neighbourliness, mutual respect and non- interference in the internal affairs of other States. 18 Recognition of each State's national sovereignty is an essential factor for the preservation of security and stability in the region, as is the settlement of disputes by peaceful means acceptable to the States concerned. Accordingly, and reaffirming its consistent position with respect to a number of regional and international questions and its keen interest in the maintenance of security and peace in the world, particularly in the Gulf region, Bahrain again calls on Iraq to implement relevant Security Council resolutions, especially those relating to weapons of mass destruction and the release of prisoners of war and detainees of Kuwaiti and other nationalities. At the same time, Bahrain urges anew that efforts be continued with a view to alleviating the suffering of the brotherly Iraqi people resulting from sanctions. It is also eager to ensure the independence, unity and territorial integrity of Iraq and opposes any interference in its internal affairs. In the interest of security, stability and peace in the Gulf region, Bahrain wishes to emphasize again its support for all efforts aimed at settling by peaceful means the dispute between the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran over the three islands, namely Abu Musa, Greater Tunb and Lesser Tunb, all of which belong to the United Arab Emirates. In this respect, Bahrain wishes success to the work of the Tripartite Ministerial Committee formed by the Gulf Cooperation Council to solve the dispute in a manner that would lead to the establishment of good and normal relations with the Islamic Republic of Iran on the basis of the principles of good neighbourliness, mutual respect and observance of mutual interests. In conjunction with the questions of security and stability, it is imperative that we re-emphasize the danger of territorial claims aimed at changing established, inherited and traditionally accepted boundaries. Bahrain therefore welcomes the resolutions adopted by the summit of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) held in Algeria in July 1999 which confirmed the adherence of member States to the principles set out in the OAU Charter and OAU resolutions in respect of inherited and traditionally accepted boundaries. During the last three years, the Middle East peace process has encountered a setback which froze and almost completely destroyed the process, owing to the rigid positions and contradictory policies of the previous Israeli Government. Now that a new Government has taken over and has made promises regarding its readiness to revive the peace process, Bahrain, having endorsed that process from the very beginning and having consistently worked towards its success, expresses its hope that the new Israeli Government will translate its promises into full, complete and faithful implementation of all the agreements reached and will be responsive to international efforts to make the peace process a success. Accordingly, the State of Bahrain has welcomed the latest Palestinian-Israeli agreement on the implementation of the Wye River accords signed at Sharm el-Sheikh as a positive step towards a final settlement between the two parties and the enhancement of the peace process among all other parties. The Arab side has repeatedly confirmed its commitment to the peace terms reflected in the principles of the 1991 Madrid Conference and the relevant United Nations resolutions. It believes that achievement of a just, comprehensive and lasting peace in the region should be the strategic option that would obligate Israel to recognize legitimate Arab rights, to comply with the relevant resolutions of international legitimacy, including Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), to respect the right of the Palestinian people to have their own independent State with Jerusalem as its capital, to fully withdraw from all occupied Arab territories, including the Syrian Arab Golan Heights, to the boundaries that existed on 4 June 1967 and to withdraw from Lebanese territory pursuant to Security Council resolution 425 (1978). The success of the peace process and the achievement of a just, comprehensive and lasting peace will undoubtedly have a bearing on the future stability and development of all the countries and peoples of the region. At the same time, we wish to stress the importance of intensifying efforts to make the Middle East, including the Gulf region, a zone free of all weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear weapons. The world has witnessed this year positive developments in respect of an issue that was a source of deep concern to the international Organization and the international community, namely the question of Lockerbie. We should like here to commend the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya for complying with relevant Security Council resolutions, as well as the other parties in the case for the cooperation they have displayed. We also welcome the suspension by the Security Council of sanctions against Libya and express our appreciation of 19 efforts exerted by the Governments of the brotherly Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and South Africa and by the Secretary-General, as well as the concerned regional organizations, which have led to agreement on the case. We hope that this will lead to the complete lifting of sanctions. The easing of the Kosovo crisis by virtue of the return of refugees and displaced persons to their homes and villages has imbued the international community with hope and satisfaction. However, the whole world has seen shocking images of the crimes of ethnic cleansing and the terrorizing of innocent people and of the human suffering that has beset the people of Kosovo, including the displacement of about one million Kosovars, mass graves and the destruction of villages and homes. It is incumbent upon the international community to unfailingly guard against and to address the causes of the phenomenon of racism and all its manifestations. In view of its keen interest in the maintenance of international peace and security, the State of Bahrain calls upon the United Nations and the international community quickly to intensify their efforts, in cooperation with the competent regional organizations, to settle the ongoing conflicts in various regions and among a number of States. These include the tense situation between Ethiopia and Eritrea and internal strife in Afghanistan, Somalia, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, East Timor and other parts of the world. Other sources of concern are the phenomena of terrorism, violence, organized crime and related activities such as transnational drug and weapons trafficking that continue to pose a threat to all societies. To address these problems the State of Bahrain supports the call by the Arab Republic of Egypt for the convening of an international conference, under the auspices of the United Nations, with a view to drawing up a comprehensive strategy to combat and eliminate these phenomena. Since the end of the Second World War, the world economy has experienced tremendous changes on the international trade landscape, including the emergence of giant trade conglomerates and a revolution in the fields of technology, information and communications. About half a century after the establishment of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the World Bank and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), the international community was able to establish the World Trade Organization (WTO) in order to undertake the responsibility of establishing frameworks for world trade in the forthcoming decades. Now, with the advent of the twenty-first century and the rise of economic globalization, the international community has to set ambitious goals, most notable of which are the eradication of poverty and the pursuit of economic and social development. Although the positive and constructive position taken recently by the Group of Eight regarding the settlement of the problems of indebtedness has created an atmosphere of confidence and satisfaction, two important points should be stressed. First, the burden of repaying the remaining balances and the servicing of debts should not interrupt the growth and integration of the national economies concerned into the world economy. Secondly, it is essential to create a favourable environment for the promotion of economic and trade cooperation between States on the basis of equality and mutual benefit and within a framework of transparency of capital markets, in addition to facilitating the transfer of technology and encouraging international investment, which would enhance development and growth for all, as well as facilitating the equitable integration of the economies of developing countries into the world economic system. This will enable the world economy to avoid any other shocks that are liable to have a universal impact. The State of Bahrain is pleased and willing to contribute to international efforts aimed at achieving increased international economic cooperation, due to its stability and strategic location, and the trade and investment environment it enjoys — elements that have helped it attract foreign capital and enhance its standing as an advanced financial and commercial centre. With the imminent approach of a new century, the world has witnessed major historical changes precipitated by technological and scientific advances, a telecommunications revolution, a rapid flow of information, a trend towards open global markets and a widening scope of interaction between nations, cultures and civilizations. All this serves as a harbinger signalling the advent of a better world for humanity as a whole. Yet, while we appreciate the positive aspects of such advance, we are duty-bound to warn against the dangers that accompany those positive aspects. Those dangers raise the following questions. To what extent can poor countries benefit from the technological revolution? If they cannot, then the revolution will serve only to widen the gap between the poor and the rich. To what extent can scientific advance 20 and globalization solve the various environmental problems that endanger the entire world, if such a solution is not linked to solving the problems of development in poor countries, on the one hand, and to curbing and rationalizing consumer and welfare trends in rich countries, on the other? To what extent can globalization of capital flows and markets facilitate the flow of investments into developing countries and boost their export capacities in a manner that would enhance the development of their economies and their contributions to the world economy? To what extent can the potential of such advance and globalization be utilized to help prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, address ethnic conflicts, settle disputes and eliminate the threat of international terrorism? To what extent can this advance and globalization be utilized to enhance opportunities for improving the quality of education, culture and worldwide intercultural knowledge, with a view to upholding the ideals of peace, equality and brotherhood among the entire human race? With the advent of the third millennium, it behoves us to consider and reflect upon the accomplishments of humanity, on the one hand, and the horrible human suffering that has beset thousands of individuals as a consequence of disputes, conflicts and poverty, on the other. We believe that the United Nations is the principal forum for such reflection and consideration so that solutions can be found for these disputes and conflicts. It is Bahrain’s conviction, in this connection, that the international community can enhance its standing and its values during the next millennium and ensure a better destiny for itself, through the achievement of peace, security, solidarity and cooperation within a framework of universal human partnership and pluralism. Bahrain regards these elements as essential for the survival of the planet and calls for strengthening the role of the United Nations system, as it is the trustworthy custodian of our accomplishments and aspirations, so that it can carry out its task to the fullest extent. We are confident that mankind can reach higher levels of advancement, development and growth through coordination and cooperation within the United Nations and other regional organizations. It is our hope that the new millennium will usher in a new era of abundance wherein the world will be endowed with security, peace and stability.   Antigua and Barbuda offers hearty congratulations on the election of the president of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. His efforts towards bringing about the independence of Namibia are well known, and many of us remember when he occupied a seat on the right side of 33 the main section of this Hall, sitting as an observer behind the name plate of the South-West Africa People's Organization (SWAPO). Mr. Gurirab's call for the return to Africa of its plundered artwork and artifacts struck a chord, as those of us who studied the African liberation struggles will recall that some 25 years ago, when he was a younger individual, he pleaded with this body for the return of African icons which adorned European and North American museums and private collections. My country is most supportive of his plea and would urge that the priceless treasures of artwork, icons and relics be returned to the continent from which they were taken. My country also wishes to thank his predecessor, Didier Opertti, who hails from Latin America and the Caribbean, for the astute and skilful manner in which he conducted the affairs of the fifty-third session. Likewise, my nation's sentiments go out to Secretary-General Kofi Annan, and we wish him continued success in the arduous tasks of bringing peace, harmony, development and justice to a global community not yet united into a true family of nations. A warm welcome is simultaneously extended to the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga on becoming full-fledged members of the United Nations. To the people of our sister Caribbean Community (CARICOM) State of the Bahamas, we extend our profound sympathy in the wake of the devastation wrought by Hurricane Floyd upon the islands of Abaco, Eleuthera, San Salvador and Cat Island, as well as other parts of the country. We thank donor countries and international institutions for the assistance given in the past, and we hope that there will be a speedy response to the needs of the Bahamian community at this time. In this regard, special mention has to be made of Kuwait for the manner in which it follows up on assisting small Caribbean countries in times of peril, and we urge the international community to work towards the preservation of that country and the maintenance of the dignity of its people. It was with delight and glee that I read the Secretary- General's descriptive definition of globalization, as it took in some of the considerations that my country has brought before this body over the past three years. He stated, “Globalization is a summary term for the increasingly complex interactions between individuals, enterprises, institutions and markets across national borders. The manifold challenges it poses, challenges that cannot successfully be addressed by nation States acting on their own, provide the most immediate and obvious reason for strengthening multilateral cooperation. Globalization is manifest in the growth in trade, technology and financial flows; in the continuing growth and increasing influence of international civil society actors; in the global operations of transnational corporations; in the vast increase in transboundary communication and information exchanges, most notably via the Internet; in transboundary transmission of disease and ecological impact; and in the increased internationalization of certain types of criminal activity. Its benefits and risks are distributed unequally, and the growth and prosperity it provides for many is offset by the increasing vulnerability and marginalization of others — and by the growth of 'uncivil society'.” (A/54/1, para. 220) Clearly, globalization leads to the reduction of the sovereignty of States, with the weakest and the smallest being the biggest losers. Sadly lacking in the arguments for globalization is the need to give consideration to the pace, direction and content of liberalization due to different levels of development and the need to build up national capabilities. Above all is the insistence on the principle of free trade for the developing world and an exemption from the same for the industrialized countries. Protective devices are inbuilt for farmers in the dominant economies, which include subsidies, guaranteed markets, payments not to produce beyond a certain level in order to maintain price levels and quite often insistence that imported farm belt products come in by way of limited means of processing and under the most stringent of guidelines. On the other hand, when former colonial countries provide preferences to their previous colonies of exploitation, challenges are mounted through the World Trade Organization by multinational enterprises. There is no more blatant example than Chiquita in regard to the Caribbean banana producers. The sad thing is that there is clear knowledge that in modern times there has never been free trade. It is not my intention to de-glorify Richard Cobden and John Bright, but the repeal of the corn laws in nineteenth-century Britain had more to do with the failure of the potato crops in Britain and Ireland, strikes by workmen against wage reductions and an alliance of industrial and commercial 34 interests against the landed gentry than it had to do with free trade. Yet irrespective of the fallacy of this free trade argument, recipients of benefits under the Lomé Convention are literally being told that they, but not the dominant Powers, must conform to and operate under the fallacy. Any disaster to banana production in the Caribbean will affect not only the banana-producing countries, but all of the Caribbean Community. Our countries are striving to remove themselves from dependence on aid. Glenys Kinnock, a member of the European Parliament, put it succinctly when she stated that the banana trade provided a ladder out of poverty for the Caribbean region and that the call for the regime to be dropped and direct aid to be substituted was unrealistic. She went on to state that it was wrong to claim that attempts to diversify were not taking place. In CARICOM, we do not wish to become international mendicants; otherwise the current situation, in which some dominant countries exercise undue pressure upon our modus vivendi, will increase to the point where we will have to dance to whichever tune the piper or pipers play. The United Nations should be viewed as the foremost international body with a semblance of egalitarianism. It should not be viewed as the institution of the dominant countries in the five regional groups; and, more than that, it ought to be the body that stands up to the encroachment of multinational enterprises that attempt to stifle the lifeline or lifeblood of legitimate and sovereign countries. If indeed the United Nations is the champion of equality, of sovereignty, of the maintenance of traditional practices which in reality do not harm others, then the collective countries should denounce this imposition by a multinational entity, which will bring ultimate and profound hardships upon our humanfolk — be they young men or old men, children or maidens, matrons or old women. We have said it before, and will reiterate that what is being inflicted upon the Caribbean banana producers is an act of war. The perils of our States are certainly not limited to bananas, and Antigua and Barbuda, as well as the majority of countries represented on the Executive Board the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), were most surprised to experience a challenge from a member of the Security Council relating to our first-country cooperation framework. This was presented, by a country with which we have cordial relations, as being a matter of principle, as Antigua and Barbuda's per capita income is $8,000 and in 1998 it ranked twenty-ninth in the Human Development Report. There was absolutely no mention of the fact that in the vulnerability index, Antigua and Barbuda ranks extremely high, due in part to the frequency with which hurricanes batter our twin-island State or threaten our lovely shores. Consequently, Antigua and Barbuda once again had to offer a reminder that its graduation from the loan windows of international financial institutions and from development assistance of other international agencies, based only on the narrow criterion of per capita income, which ignores the serious and persistent problems confronted by Antigua and Barbuda and most Caribbean small island developing States, is both unfair and unjust. We also had to point out that 5 per cent of our country's population consists of Montserratans who have been displaced by volcanic eruption. This has meant expanding our infrastructure to accommodate the unfortunate souls from the Emerald Isle. Antigua and Barbuda supports the concept of UNDP and the United Nations Population Fund working with and rendering assistance to countries described as having transition economies, as well as countries which have suffered the ravages of internecine warfare, that have absorbed significant numbers of refugees and which are subject to many vulnerabilities, including natural disasters, and are victims of economic practices which work against their advancement. The work of UNDP is valued worldwide, and countries which are most vulnerable should certainly be at the forefront for assistance and guidance. We have to ask once again if we must be penalized because of our successes. I sincerely hope that in this body, particularly among the major financial contributors, that it is not the view that small island developing States cannot advance beyond a certain level of development, as, otherwise, they would be overreaching themselves and delving into a domain reserved for members of a certain club. Antigua and Barbuda takes its role in the United Nations very seriously and will remain dedicated to the principle of egalitarianism. We annually recite our vulnerabilities, paying most attention to the furore of natural disasters, and over the last 10 years my country has experienced four hurricanes. Whereas it is a glorious sight to witness volcanic eruptions in Montserrat from Antigua, the reality of the dangerous consequences is always present. We are additionally faced with the activities of Kick'em Jenny, an undersea volcano off the spice island of Grenada. The Caribbean Development Bank is providing a grant to the Seismic Research Unit of the University of the West Indies for the establishment of a mechanism for 35 continuous monitoring of the volcano. According to one scholar, “Not only will the communities of the Grenadines and nearby islands have to guard against debris ejected during a volcanic explosion, but the entire Caribbean will be jeopardized by the threat of seismic waves, known as tsunami”. This is yet another example of our vulnerability. Irrespective of our trials, tribulations and unfair castigations, my country, when appraised objectively, has been considered a marvel; hence its continued high ranking on the human development index. We practise the Westminster model of parliamentary democracy and do so effectively. Our national elections are open and transparent. Our first national hero, Sir Vere Cornwall Bird, appropriately dubbed Father of the Nation, died this year, and Members of Parliament in both the House and the Senate were lavish in their praise of one who was internationally acclaimed — particularly in Africa, where he had an impact on many of its leaders, both during and after the colonial era, and in the African diaspora of the New World. We have remained committed to the empowerment of the socially and economically challenged. Women occupy senior positions in the civil service and are represented in significant numbers in the professions. In one they outnumber men. In the area of violence against women, legislation has been enacted to give greater protection to the female members of our society. In the desire of the Government to ensure that its people enjoy a decent standard of living and an improved quality of life, the Government has energetically tackled this responsibility. And, in the absence of truly vibrant private sectors to lead economic growth and development as in developed countries, the tasks performed by the Government have expanded and have become more demanding. Antigua and Barbuda has, however, never been short on ideas as to how to help itself and as to how it can be assisted internationally in overcoming vulnerability and accelerating sustainable development. Sustainable development is foremost in our thinking. At the sixth meeting of the Commonwealth Consultative Group on Environment at the United Nations in April, we received support from the attending States for the ideas posited. In the first place, Antigua and Barbuda hopes that the vulnerability index being developed by the Commonwealth secretariat and the World Bank task force will be introduced as soon as possible into international organizations. This must be borne in mind from the perspective that we have repeatedly addressed the limitations and unfairness of using per capita income in assessing our economic efficacy. Secondly, following the decision of the disputes tribunal of the World Trade Organization supporting the contention of the discrimination directed at the banana regime operating under the Lomé Treaty, there is an urgent need for the World Trade Organization to apply special and differential treatment to small island developing States as it does to least developed countries. If markets in Europe are eroded for small States, those States will deteriorate economically, socially and politically to the point of placing yet another burden on the international community. This deduction is made from an analysis of the dispute tribunal's ruling, which suggests that the entire quota system for imports by the European Union from the African-Caribbean-Pacific countries for all products is now under threat. In the third place, we would like to reiterate the call made for a disaster fund in 1995 by our Prime Minister, The Right Honourable Lester Bird. He made that call following the devastation of hurricane Luis, which wiped out one year of Antigua and Barbuda's gross domestic product in 36 perilous hours. Whereas the existing mechanisms address the purpose of relieving immediate suffering and agony, they are woefully insufficient for reconstruction and rehabilitation. As one who represents his country on the Committee of 24, the so-called Decolonization Committee, I was somewhat taken aback to hear the Foreign Minister of a country that had previously supported non-intervention state that the United Nations has failed to address well- known conflicts of catastrophic proportions in a timely manner. It would therefore seem that more and more countries are moving towards the acceptance of joint action in a given country if there is a clear case of genocide and a total violation of human rights. What happened in East Timor goes well beyond the point of frustration. Since my country has from quite early on advocated the right of the people of Western Sahara to self-determination, we have been saddened each time that plans for a referendum among the Sahraoui people have been delayed. We believe that each and every postponement interferes with and impedes the will of self- determination. The happenings in East Timor will have a 36 further impact on the will of the staunch and hardy Sahraoui people, and this gives us cause for great concern. It is important that everything be done to avoid a repetition of what has happened in East Timor after people have exercised their right of self-determination. Like other countries, my country believes that intervention in affairs within another State should be the last resort. But there are many questions to be answered in regard to oppression, degradation and dehumanization. The East Timor example should set us working to avoid another catastrophe of that magnitude. I have long marvelled at the prophetic brilliance of the former Foreign Minister of Uruguay, Eduardo Rodr'guez Larreta, who in 1946 argued that non-intervention could not be converted into a right to convoke one principle in order to violate all other principles with impunity. Nothing, however, is being advocated here except that we address ourselves meaningfully towards measures to avoid another East Timor. So much have we been looking forward to the new millennium that we have defied the laws of mathematics and brought forward the beginning of the twenty-first century by making it come about in the last year of the twentieth century. Even at the United Nations is the year 2000 being proclaimed as the beginning of the new millennium. Be that as it may, it is not sufficient to proclaim a new millennium and to have the grand, planned celebration. The commitment to the eradication of poverty, the achievement of peace and security and cooperation for development should be sincere, meaningful and followed through to the level of profound accomplishment. Antigua and Barbuda cherishes the United Nations and is not unmindful of the numerous advances that have come about as a result of its impact in conflict resolution, the maintenance of peace, the shelter and sanctuary provided to refugees, the promotion of human rights, the eradication of certain diseases and numerous other tangibles. Thus, Antigua and Barbuda remains ready to continue contributing to the advancement of humanity and will, as it has done in the past, insist on the principle of multilateralism. Together, our countries, large and small, can make contributions in overcoming the plagues with which we are afflicted and move towards peace, cohesion, harmony and the alleviation of poverty in the coming century.  It is an honour for me to address this Assembly. I bring to all greetings and good wishes from His Majesty Norodom Sihanouk, King of Cambodia, and from the people and 19 the Royal Government of Cambodia. I should like to inform the Assembly about the recent strides Cambodia has made and about how it stands ready to fulfil its role in the community of nations. I wish also to share with the Assembly some humble thoughts on global events of the past and responsibilities for the future. First of all, on behalf of the delegation of the Kingdom of Cambodia, and on my own behalf, I would like to extend heartfelt congratulations to Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab on his election as the President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. We wish him success in his important work and pledge him our full support and cooperation. Allow me also to express my sincere thanks and admiration to Mr. Didier Opertti, President of the General Assembly at its fifty-third session, for his benevolent leadership and guidance. I also wish to take this opportunity, on behalf of the Royal Government and the people of Cambodia, to warmly welcome the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga to the United Nations. Just in the past year, Cambodia has finally turned a corner of history, putting firmly behind it the darkness of its recent past and emerging into the new dawn of its future. For the first time in many decades, Cambodia is now a fully integrated country, without rebels or separatists and without internal strife or conflict. The black chapter of strife, violence, turbulence and turmoil is finally closed. Last year we held open and free general elections on our own, assisted and witnessed closely by the international community, which pronounced them fully free and fair. After considerable discussions among the main elected parties concerning a common platform to serve the cause of the country and its people, a new coalition Government is now in place. The last remnants of the genocidal Khmer Rouge have either surrendered or been captured, and are in custody awaiting trial for their crimes of genocide. We are firmly resolved to do whatever is needed to ensure an open trial for those responsible for genocidal crimes perpetrated in the country in the past. In holding this trial, we will carefully balance the need to provide our people, who were the victims of this genocidal regime, with justice in order finally to put behind us that dark chapter in our national history, and the paramount need for continued national reconciliation and the preservation of the hard-earned peace, national independence and sovereignty which we value most highly. Peace, which was so elusive for many decades past, now finally prevails throughout the country. Cambodia has joined that important regional group, the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), and is determined to play its responsible role in regional and international affairs. Cambodia and its people are committed to pluralist democracy and to upholding and protecting human dignity and human rights. We will be guided and governed to in all our efforts by the pursuit of the rule of law, which provides equality for all before the law and ensures that legal procedures and practices are the same for all and that the law is enforced through a competent and impartial judiciary system with built-in procedures for appeal and for rendering judgment. On the economic front, we have pursued and will continue to pursue market-oriented policies, with safety nets for the vulnerable sectors of society until they are able to compete on an equal footing with others. Our principal goal is poverty alleviation. Our economic policies and practices, with generous external assistance — for which we are grateful — have resulted in steady growth over the past few years. Even during the financial melt-down in the region two years ago the Cambodian economy maintained a fairly even keel. Moreover, with strong political will, the Royal Government is implementing its policy platform and reform programmes with a view to establishing a viable foundation for long-term economic growth and sustainable development. The key areas of the reform programmes include military and police demobilization; public sector reform aimed at strengthening democracy; improving public services and increasing their efficiency; enhancing the rule of law and respect for human rights; and economic reforms focused on maintaining macroeconomic stability: strengthening banking and financial institutions, fiscal reform, sound management of public property and increased public investment in physical and social infrastructure and human resource development. So now, as the century ends, we can say with confidence that we are firmly back on track as one unified nation — unified in our desire not to be drawn into the divisive factions of the past, but rather to play our part in the comity of nations for a better future for all mankind. We look to the future with great optimism born 20 out of our own achievements in political reconciliation, compromise and adaptation placing the people’s longer-term interests above narrow and short-term partisan gains, and out of our sound economic and social policies. We are both determined and confident that Cambodia will march ahead into the next century, and millennium, with renewed confidence and vigour, and that it will contribute to human progress. This is a historic session which affords us all an opportunity — indeed compels us — to reflect on the past and plan our planet’s future together. Looking at a wider perspective, we can see that humanity has witnessed unimaginable and immeasurably great change and progress over the last millennium. Progress in science and technology has helped us conquer deadly diseases, extend and enhance human life and improve the human condition. We have vastly increased our understanding of our planet and our universe. We have annihilated distance and improved communications to make our Earth a global village indeed. Much of our technological progress and many notable achievements have indeed occurred in the last mere hundred years, and the more we advance, the more possibilities for achievement arise. Yet our achievements also mask many continued failings and appear to give rise to potential dangers. On a planetary level, we have vastly depleted our natural resources, mining and using non-renewable resources at a rapid rate; destroying our forests; depleting our oceans; polluting resources that are essential to our very survival, such as air and water; and driving to extinction rare species of fauna and flora, the value of whose contributions to balance and harmony in nature we have yet to understand. We have acquired weapons of awesome power that can destroy all that we have accomplished and built. The technological revolution that we have witnessed in this century has gone so far that human morals have yet to catch up with it. We have deployed vast efforts and resources — intellectual, physical and financial — to achieve this tremendous progress in science and technology, but we must be sure that these accomplishments can be harnessed and will serve only to increase the well-being of humankind instead of destroying it. The greatest concern of the coming century is that the revolutionary progress in science and technology achieved over the past 100 years has resulted in, among other things, the production of all kinds of weapons of mass destruction. As a result, there are now countless arms factories and a huge stock of modern weapons in many countries worldwide. Meanwhile, the modernization of armed forces — which is actually an arms race — continues unabated, in parallel with the many conflicts that are spreading throughout the world. Where will this situation lead us? This century has witnessed two great wars, unleashed by intolerance and bigotry, which caused more division in their wake. More and more lives are being lost. Social tensions and hatred abound, caused by religious and other differences. The world has reached a stage of complete disorder, where the rich and mighty impose their agenda on the poor and force the weak to follow them. We must also stress that scientific and technological research, which has been conducted in a morally irresponsible manner, has turned our world into one of drug production, where most of the discoveries have been made by the developed countries but have had a destructive impact on poor developing countries. The world is facing many fundamental challenges, such as organized crime, drug and human trafficking, and so on, that jeopardize the future of coming generations. In addition, the gap between the rich and the poor, the mighty and the meek, and the haves and have-nots have widened. We have lost the art of sharing and caring. Our numbers have multiplied many times, but science has yet to find ways to feed future billions and to stretch mother earth’s capacity to sustain us. The aging of our people will pose immense challenges for future generations, when fewer productive people will have to meet the needs of larger numbers of dependents, young and old alike. Half a billion people live in abject poverty, while a few enjoy conspicuous comfort. The poor, vulnerable and oppressed suffer everywhere because of exploitation and neglect. In our rapid progress and our daily race to achieve more and temporarily resolve problems as they arise, we seem not to pay attention to the longer-term future. The dawn of the next millennium is forcing us to pause and reflect. In the past, human destiny has from time to time been guided by far-seeing messiahs and visionaries. But we cannot afford to wait for another messiah to appear. Since all our religions teach us that there is a messiah deep down in each one of us, that is where we must search for answers. Let not the arrogance of our justified achievements lull us into inaction for the future. 21 World leaders have a rare and grave responsibility to carry out this soul-searching. It is given to few of us to undertake the task of charting the future as the next millennium dawns. We have to set aside our daily chores and power games and devote our attention to long-term problems. A few hours or days of reflection in 2000 will determine the destiny of the next thousand years and more for humankind and for mother earth. Let us for a time forget all our differences; imagine that there are no national boundaries or religious, racial or regional differences; and devote our attention to the most important and essential areas we must address in the next four to five years in order to set our planet on the correct course for the future. We do not need long, drawn-out academic conferences of every kind and on every subject to do this. We do not need volumes of position papers. We need only to trust our collective knowledge; the lessons of the past, which are immense; and our innate basic good instincts. In this spirit, I would like to express Cambodia’s strong support for the 2000 millennium summit of the leaders of all countries, where — without having to watch our sound-bites, pose for the cameras or please domestic audiences — we can talk of our planet and humankind and of what needs to be done. The overarching need is to ensure that the Cambodian Buddhist concept of “Dharma”, or its equivalent in every religion, be respected, and that we do what past messiahs have enjoined us to do. In essence, we must lead a balanced and tolerant life, in harmony with oneself, with one’s neighbours, with other beings, with nature and with the cosmos. Perhaps we have to visualize and devise new institutions and agendas, or significantly reshape and redirect existing ones, to guide us through the beginning of the next millennium. We also have to set short- to medium-term agendas of a more practical nature. Of topmost priority is the need to eradicate poverty, a continuing scourge and stigma for humanity. We should devise steps to achieve this in the first 10 years of the next century. With sharing from the rich to the poor, internationally and within countries, this is not an impossible task. Already the G-8 nations have agreed to forgo past debts of poorer nations. This trend needs to continue, and future assistance should largely be through well-monitored grants rather than loans. Secondly, we must preserve and enhance our environment and ecology. We have already seen how some areas try to dispose of their contaminated wastes in other places. It is necessary to stop the generation of wastes or to contain their levels at the source. In some cases we have to slow, or sacrifice current consumption, but this takes vision and determination. Last but not least, we need to re-evaluate the roles of common institutions and focus on their positive aspects. The United Nations has served us well for more than half a century. It has done commendable work beyond its original mandate and has adapted to changing needs. It has been a platform for defining common goals. But we need to show more dedicated determination to rid it of functions, committees and forums which have lost relevance or usefulness. Within the United Nations much has been accomplished under the bold and visionary leadership of the Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, and we all pay tribute to his wisdom and managerial abilities. Yet some challenges remain including further efforts to curtail the burgeoning budget levels. Cambodia supports the need to reform the United Nations. The Organization and its specialized organs need to become more unified at the country level under the mechanism of the United Nations resident coordinator. In other words, there should be a single United Nations presence in each country, with specialized organs serving under one leadership, much like an ambassador providing an overall umbrella for all the activities of his country in a host country. With this reform, our world body will be required to improve the criteria for recruiting staff and officials for posting in various United Nations agencies, especially for posting in member countries. Otherwise, they will consider themselves almighty gods, without any virtue, ready to violate the sovereignty of a member country, which has paid considerable membership dues to pay their high salaries. In this regard, Cambodia has had some experience in the history of its cooperation with some United Nations officials. The Kingdom of Cambodia deems it necessary, on the other hand, to abide strictly by the United Nations Charter and to reinforce the role of the Security Council in the process of maintaining peace in the world. We appeal to the international community to make further contributions to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), so that it can continue to provide development aid to the least developed countries. We also think that punishing poor people of the least developed countries, by imposing sanctions and economic blockade to achieve one’s political agenda, goes against the principle of humanity and respect for human rights 22 and for the right to self-determination of the people living in the affected country. Therefore, Cambodia fully supports the demand of many countries for the immediate removal of the economic blockade imposed on Cuba. Cambodia fully welcomes the decision of the Government of Indonesia to accept the multinational peacekeeping forces of the United Nations so as to restore and strengthen order and stability in East Timor. We cherish the strong hope that the multinational peacekeeping forces of the United Nations will effectively cooperate with the Indonesian Government to quickly and successfully create a peaceful situation for the people of East Timor. In closing, let me once again appeal to world leaders to use the opportunity of the dawn of the new millennium to carefully evaluate our achievements and their costs, as well as the future perils that confront us, and to consider important steps to establish a new world order that will take this planet safely through the next thousand years. The lessons of the past should steer us towards ensuring lasting legacies for generations yet to be born. Cambodia stands ready to join in this global effort.  On behalf of my delegation, I offer Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab my sincere congratulations on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. I also pay a tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, under whose leadership the Assembly succeeded in achieving positive results at its fifty-third session. I have every expectation that this, the final session of the Assembly of the twentieth century, will be as fruitful. The rich experience and leadership Mr. Gurirab brings to the presidency ensure the session's success. I assure him of our full cooperation and support in his noble endeavours. I warmly congratulate the three new Members, the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga, on their admission to the United Nations. The new millennium is about to dawn, and we will enter it with great hope for the new age, but also burdened by numerous problems left unresolved from the passing century. To realize the hope and mould the twenty-first century into an era of global peace and stability, of well-being and prosperity for all humankind, we must face up to these problems, decide what our priority goals are and seek measures to achieve them. So that the fifty-fourth session may illuminate the way, let us gather the best of our collective wisdom. The defining character of our times is change and the acceleration of change. The guiding precept of the global actors is shifting from nationalism to internationalism, and further to globalism. The whole world is converging around shared values and behaviour patterns. In economic affairs, the market economy is becoming the global norm. In political matters, reconciliation and cooperation have become the expected mode of behaviour. The world is becoming a global village of countries willing and eager to live with one another in interdependence and integration. A conspicuous exception to the tide of the times is the Korean peninsula, where the confrontational structure of the cold-war era still keeps the two divided sides in mutual distrust and hostility. Decades have passed since the end of the Korean war, but genuine peace has yet to come to the Korean people. Despite the warm wind of reconciliation blowing around the world, the Korean peninsula has remained frozen in an icy time warp. The Republic of Korea aspires to melt away the ice and reconcile with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. It aspires to free the Korean peninsula from the final legacy of the cold war and allow it to take its rightful place in the grand march of history towards the new era. To realize this aspiration, the engagement policy of the Government of President Kim Dae-jung has been sending warm winds of sunshine to the North, in hopes that it will respond in kind. Inspired by the lessons of history and the trend of the times, this sunshine policy represents a bold shift in our thinking about South-North relations. Our engagement policy is not aimed at undermining or absorbing the North. Instead, it is a policy of cooperation, designed to help North Korea overcome its economic difficulties and promote the co-prosperity of all Koreans, so that we may finally be free from the threat of another war. It is a policy of tolerance, envisioning the peaceful coexistence of two systems along the road to eventual unification. The steady and consistent implementation of the engagement policy during the past year and a half has made meaningful and unprecedented openings in the thick wall that divides South and North Korea. South Korean businesses are investing in the North. In one such venture, over 100,000 South Korean tourists were able to visit a scenic mountain in the North for the first time since the national division. 19 Economic cooperation is also an important element in the work of the Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization, a joint endeavour of the Republic of Korea, the United States, Japan, the European Union and many other countries to help resolve North Korea's energy- shortage problem while keeping it free of nuclear weapons. The engagement policy is being carried out in close consultation with the United States and Japan. It also has the full support of our neighbours in North-East Asia — China, the Russian Federation and Mongolia — as well as the G-7, the Association of South-East Asian Nations, the European Union and other members of the international community. South Korea is deeply grateful for their understanding and support. Still North Korea remains suspicious of our intentions. It may perceive the engagement policy as a strategy to bring about its downfall or to absorb it. Speaking in this solemn Hall, I must reiterate the genuine, good-hearted intentions of the engagement policy. The Republic of Korea has no wish to undermine North Korea or to make it a part of us. All we seek is peaceful coexistence. I make this appeal. Let us, South and North Korea, live in lasting peace. Let us together join the mainstream of history: reconciliation, cooperation and interdependence. I sincerely hope that North Korea responds to the warm sunshine we have been sending it with some warm sunshine of its own. I also hope that the North Korean authorities will take steps to fundamentally address the chronic food shortage and other difficulties that have plagued the people in the North for many years. The problems require the continued interest and assistance of the international community. Countless children in the North are suffering and dying from starvation and malnutrition, stunted growth and disease. With their right to food and life irrevocably impaired, tens of thousands of North Koreans have fled the country in search of food. The primary responsibility for redressing the situation lies with the North Korean authorities. They must face up to the enormity of the problems. We also hope that the international community will provide continued humanitarian assistance to North Korea. The Government of the Republic of Korea has actively taken part in the humanitarian efforts to help the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. We are prepared to offer far more in terms of food and fertilizer, as well as assistance to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea's agricultural restructuring. We urge the North Korean authorities to join us in dialogue for cooperation on this and other matters. North-East Asia, where the interests of the major Powers intersect, is an economic powerhouse and a region vital to global peace and stability. With the market economy taking root throughout the region, a new age of stability, cooperation and mutual prosperity is sprouting in North-East Asia. The countries of the region are becoming bound ever closer together in economic ties and interdependencies. Unhampered exchanges and cooperation are expanding far beyond the trade in goods and services to people-to-people contacts and other interactions in the fields of culture, sports, education and many others. Mutual understanding and appreciation is deepening. To further the trend, North-East Asia requires adequate mechanisms to deal with transnational issues, such as environmental pollution, drug-trafficking, refugees, organized crime and public health. There is also a need for a region-wide channel of dialogue and cooperation to defuse tension and prevent conflict. To enjoy a stable security environment and co- prosperity in the twenty-first century, the countries of North-East Asia must learn from the lessons of region-wide cooperation and integration in many other areas of the world. They must strengthen mutual trust by upgrading the mode and calibre of their dialogue and consultations. They should promptly set out to establish a dialogue forum where they can all engage in earnest exchanges of views and nurture the sense of community. The Republic of Korea stands ready to cooperate closely with the other countries of the region to launch such a mechanism for dialogue and cooperation encompassing all of North-East Asia. I urge the countries of the region to join in the efforts to translate this idea into reality. Peace and co-prosperity in North-East Asia will certainly gain from the global disarmament and non-proliferation efforts, in which the Republic of Korea has been an active participant. With the ratification of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), my country is now a party to all the key non-proliferation treaties. We call upon other countries that have yet to sign and ratify the CTBT to promptly do so, so that the Treaty can soon go into effect. We call upon all States to join in the non-proliferation efforts by acceding to all global 20 regimes, such as the Chemical Weapons Convention, aimed at combating the spread of weapons of mass destruction. A priority task for the global community will be to successfully carry out the review Conference of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) slated for next year and to revitalize the Conference on Disarmament. I urge the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, as a party to the NPT, to fulfil its responsibilities under the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards agreement and to cooperate with us to implement the 1991 Joint Declaration on the Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. We are living in a single global community. Globalization has been good to the Republic of Korea. Without the open markets, interdependencies and instant information flow nurtured by globalization, we would not have been able to achieve the rapid economic development that we did. However, stuck in the expediencies fostered during the years of Government-driven quantitative growth, Korea neglected to strengthen the market rules in the national economy. We failed to realize that globalization requires constant efforts to reinforce the market rules — transparency, accountability, efficiency and productivity. As a result, Korea was struck by a severe economic crisis in 1997. But now we are trying to make up for past neglect. During the past year and a half, we have been undertaking sweeping and intense reforms in the key sectors of society. The reforms have required painful restructuring and sacrifices, but we have been steady and firm in putting into practice the belief that trade and investment liberalization and the strengthening of market rules are the keys to sustained economic growth and prosperity. A year ago, from this same rostrum, I spoke about the efforts of my Government and people to overcome the crisis, guided by the conviction in the parallel development of democracy and the free-market economy. Today, I am happy to report that the efforts have begun to pay off and the country is expected to achieve over 6 per cent economic growth this year, a dramatic turnaround from the -5.8 percent of last year. Other economic indicators also speak of a stable, recovering economy. Korea has learned valuable lessons from the economic crisis. We are now keenly aware that free and fair competition and good governance are essential to sustainable economic development. We also realized that a system of social welfare based on human-resources development must be established to mitigate the painful consequences of the reforms. Applying those lessons in the reform drive, we are on our way to becoming a market economy with a human face. Of course, in a globalized economy, crisis knows no borders and the efforts at preventing and coping with crisis must also extend beyond borders. In this regard, we welcome the discussions concerning the restructuring of the global financial architecture. For the discussions to be productive, the crisis-stricken countries and other emerging market economies should have extensive participation. Keeping track of the discussions for meaningful progress, we count on the continued cooperation between the United Nations and the Bretton Woods systems. One consequence of globalization has been the widening gap between the developed and the developing countries and the increasing marginalization of the least developed ones. Unattended, the disparity will only grow in the twenty-first century of unlimited competition, becoming a risk factor that could endanger global stability and peace. There is a pressing need for a new paradigm of international development cooperation, whereby the chronic poverty and excessive debts besetting the developing countries and other related issues are taken as challenges to be overcome with the active input of all members of the global community. Development is meaningless without a healthy population to reap the fruits. Thus, we welcome the joint initiative of the United Nations Children's Fund and the World Health Organization to establish the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization and the Children's Vaccine Initiative. Doing its share in the efforts to save the 9 million children of the world who are dying every year from diseases that can be prevented, the Republic of Korea has hosted the International Vaccine Institute since 1994. We hope the Institute will be able to work in close cooperation with the Global Alliance and the Vaccine Initiative. In the half century since the Universal Declaration of Human Rights was adopted in 1948, the United Nations has taken the lead in forging global mechanisms for the protection and advancement of human rights around the world. The principles of universality, indivisibility and interdependence of all human rights are now widely upheld. Human rights violations, wherever they may take place, are now considered a legitimate concern of the international community. Human rights has 21 become a priority agenda of the post-cold-war global community. In the Republic of Korea, the Government of President Kim Dae Jung has made significant advances in the field of human rights. We have also been an active participant in the efforts of the United Nations and the global community to resolve concrete cases of human rights violations. While we note the advances in human rights, we must not forget that a quarter of the world's population still struggles to survive in abject poverty. Poverty undermines human dignity and human rights. Poverty is fertile ground for conflict and dictatorship. Poverty alleviation should be incorporated as a key goal in the United Nations endeavours to advance human rights around the world. We wish to see the mainstreaming of human rights in all the programmes and activities of the United Nations further expanded and deepened. Furthermore, we believe this global body should strengthen its capacity for early warning and preventive action so as to forestall massive human rights violations and the outflow of refugees. The task of advancing human rights has always benefited from the push and pull of civil society. It will be even more so in the new century as Governments and the United Nations work in closer alliance and cooperation with non-governmental organizations, research organizations and advocacy groups. Next month, some 3,000 non- governmental organization representatives will gather in Seoul to take part in the 1999 international conference of non-governmental organizations. Exploring the role of the non-governmental organizations in the twenty-first century global community, the meeting from October 11 to 15 should bring the United Nations system and civil society closer together. Let us turn our attention to the situation in East Timor. The Republic of Korea applauded the Government of Indonesia for making the decision to let the people of East Timor choose their own fate. The will of the people, as unequivocally registered on 30 August, must be upheld. The violent repression of that will is a grave challenge to the basic principle of democracy and human decency. The atrocity must not be left unpunished and law and order must be restored in East Timor. The Indonesian Government has again shown wisdom and courage in accepting the multinational peacekeeping forces under the auspices of the United Nations. We hope that peace is soon returned and that the will of the people for independence is fully implemented through the conjoined efforts of the Indonesian Government and the United Nations. The Republic of Korea will take part in the peacekeeping operations and will continue to do its share in the efforts to safeguard regional and global peace and stability. The United Nations has much work to do in the twenty-first century. The Republic of Korea deeply appreciates the reforms introduced by the Secretary-General to enhance the responsiveness of the global body to new challenges. We welcome the designation of the fifty-fifth session next year as the Millennium Assembly to identify the challenges awaiting the global community in the twenty-first century. We hope the Millennium Assembly strengthens the global leadership of the United Nations for the new age. In this regard, such thought-provoking concepts as global public goods, human security and global governance may serve to frame the discussions at the Millennium Assembly. I look to the twenty-first century as the era of the United Nations. I sincerely hope to see the global body renew itself and fulfil its missions through continuous reforms and to enhance its effectiveness and democratic character. Recalling the lofty spirit that gave birth to the United Nations half a century ago, on behalf of the Government and people of the Republic of Korea, I pledge our abiding support for the global body in its noble mission for peace and prosperity around the world.  Permit me first to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the office of President of the General Assembly at its fifty- fourth session. I am fully confident that your experience and skills will bring the work of this session to a successful conclusion. Please permit me also to express my deep appreciation and gratitude to your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, for his magnificent and distinguished stewardship, which made a success of the last session. I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his wise leadership and outstanding work towards realizing and emphasizing the goals and principles of the United Nations and his tireless efforts to achieve peace, security and stability in the world. In the last few months of the second millennium, and as we bid farewell to it and await the dawning of the third millennium, this session of the General Assembly takes place at an important historic and symbolic moment, a moment of mixed emotions. We look back and see that mankind has achieved great things despite the serious suffering and pain that have marked the twentieth century. We look forward with great hope to entering a new era in which we shall build a more humanitarian world, in which nations will be able to live in true partnership, with a sense of belonging to this planet, in a more just and harmonious way. We shall have an enhanced ability to cope collectively with the major challenges that confront us and to respond to changes that require a long-range global vision. This will increase our ability to provide answers and solutions to the difficult questions and issues that face us. This historic moment is of particular importance in the life of Jordan, which was engulfed by grief a few months ago, when it was deprived of its great leader, the late King Hussein Ibn Talal — may God bless his soul. He had succeeded in turning Jordan from a small country with limited resources into an oasis of peace and stability in a region beset by disturbances and wars. This country has just begun a new era under the leadership of King Abdullah II Bin Al Hussein. His Majesty has assumed the responsibility for continuing, with renewed vigour, to lead Jordan to progress and prosperity, as we look forward to ushering in the new century. He is committed also to Jordan’s continuing to make its important and essential contribution to the building of peace in the Middle East and to continuing to contribute generously at the international level. He strongly believes, as Jordan’s leaders have always believed, that our country belongs to 30 this international family. Jordan is committed to the Charter of the United Nations and to the principles of international law. Our late leader was a unique international leader, with an unflinching belief in the role of the United Nations and in the peaceful settlement of disputes. He expressed his belief in these principles by working all his life to bring about a just, comprehensive and lasting peace in the Middle East based on international legitimacy. He did this out of his strong belief in human dignity, in people’s right to live free from all forms of injustice and despotism, and out of an awareness that human life is too precious to be wasted in confrontations and wars. Human beings have the right to lead free and dignified lives, channelling all their resources and energies towards achieving economic and social development and participating in building a prosperous and secure future for the generations to come. The life of our great leader who is, alas, no more, is the story of the building of modern Jordan. His exceptional contributions in the international arena were also a rare example of what can be achieved by a historic leader who believes in high moral principles and supreme virtues. Jordanians felt a deep sense of pride and appreciation when they saw the whole world — leaders and common people alike — standing side by side with them, sharing their grief at the loss of the creator of their renaissance and their modern State. They also felt a deep sense of trust and confidence in the strength and durability of their constitutional and institutional structures, which were built by the late leader of their country and have ensured a stable and successful beginning to the era of King Abdullah II Bin Al Hussein, in a way that has won the appreciation and respect of the world. Jordanians are rallying today behind their King and marching behind him on the road to realizing their hopes and aspirations. Jordan is beginning, under the leadership of King Abdullah II Bin Al Hussein, a new era with a firm commitment to following the same course that has distinguished and will continue to distinguish Jordanian policy at both the domestic and international levels. Over the past few months, Jordan has continued its efforts to advance the peace process in the Middle East. This process had suffered over the past three years from foot-dragging leading to effective deadlock, all of which severely tested the confidence of the peoples of the region in the peace process as a whole. The result of last May’s parliamentary elections in Israel gave rise to new hopes of reviving this process and putting it back on track. The positive developments of the past few weeks show that the region stands now before a second historic opportunity to achieve peace on all tracks. We sincerely hope that the leaders of the region will seize this opportunity, live up to the expectations and aspirations of their peoples and not hesitate to take the bold decisions needed to bring the negotiations to fruition. The question of Palestine has been and will continue to be at the core of the Arab-Israeli conflict and the Middle East crisis. The establishment of peace in the region therefore requires, first and foremost, that a just solution should be reached to this question — a solution with which the peoples of the region will be satisfied and which they will if need be defend. Jordan has been calling throughout the past year for the Wye River Memorandum, which was arrived at with the unprecedented involvement and assistance of the late King Hussein, to be implemented. We have been consistently aware of the impact that implementation of the Memorandum would have on reactivating the peace process on all tracks, on establishing confidence and a spirit of partnership between the Palestinian and Israeli leaderships, and on re- establishing confidence in the peace process amongst the peoples of the region. The signing of the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum has enhanced the prospects for implementing the Wye River Memorandum in a way that we hope will advance the final status negotiations between the Palestinians and the Israelis so that a settlement may be reached that would ensure that the Palestinian people realize their right to self-determination, including their right to establish an independent State on their national territory, with Al-Quds al-Sharif — Holy Jerusalem — as its capital. As King Abdullah II has emphasized, Jordan will continue to provide support for a successful conclusion of the negotiations. We are directly interested in their success because the issues on the agenda relate to our national interest, particularly the issues of the refugees, the borders and Jerusalem. Over the past 50 years, Jordan, more than any other party, has shouldered the burden of the refugee problem. This has put immense pressures on Jordan’s resources and economy, particularly given that every reduction in the services provided by the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) has placed additional burdens on Jordan. Direct expenditures by the Government of Jordan on services provided to the refugees in 1998 reached 4.75 times the amount spent by UNRWA on such services. Total expenditures incurred by the Government of Jordan equal the entire budget that UNRWA spends on 31 refugees in all its areas of operations throughout the Middle East. Jordan calls on the international community not to allow any reductions in the role of UNRWA or in its programmes until the refugee question has been resolved in accordance with international legitimacy — which would lead to the closing of this file in its entirety once and for all. Jordan also calls on the donor countries to continue their support for UNRWA to enable it to continue to discharge its responsibilities. With regard to the peace process on other tracks, Jordan believes that a comprehensive solution is a prerequisite for the establishment of peace in the region. Without such a solution, no settlement can be assured of durability. Jordan therefore strongly supports the efforts to reactivate negotiations on the Syrian and Lebanese tracks. It supports the demand by Syria and Lebanon that negotiations should be resumed from the point at which they stopped. The Jordanian leadership will spare no effort to help bring about a breakthrough in negotiations on both tracks. Hopes have been rising over the past few weeks that this can be achieved, particularly in view of Syria’s reaffirmation of its full commitment to work for the establishment of peace and of its concern for reviving the peace process and bringing it to its desired goal: the achievement of a just, lasting and comprehensive settlement. There have also been a number of positive indicators from the Syrian Government and the Israeli Government has said that it is convinced of the crucial importance of reaching a peace agreement with Syria. While looking forward to these positive developments with great hopes, the peoples of the region earnestly desire that this historic opportunity should not be missed and that the efforts made will succeed in reaching a settlement whereby Syria and Lebanon will have their legitimate rights restored through Israel’s withdrawal from the Syrian Arab Golan Heights and from southern Lebanon in implementation of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978). The peoples of the Middle East region have suffered unprecedented hardships because of the failure to reach a comprehensive, just and lasting peaceful settlement. Vast resources have been squandered on a useless arms race that failed to provide security for any of the parties. Today the peoples of the region look forward to real progress in the peace process — progress that will help create a climate conducive to an end to the arms race and to convincing the various parties that peace is the only option capable of providing security for all. It will also convince them to make the Middle East a zone free from weapons of mass destruction. This requires a commitment from all parties to accede to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and to ratify the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. The issues of refugees, economic disparities and water, as well as the elimination of weapons of mass destruction, require effective regional cooperation and concrete international support. Without resolving the fundamental political aspects of the conflict, the region will continue to suffer from the consequences of non- cooperation in resolving these issues. Unless they are resolved, they themselves will escalate and create new hotbeds of conflict in the region. On the eastern flank of our region, the Iraqi people continue to suffer unprecedented hardships as a result of the continued economic sanctions. The price of these sanctions is paid by the Iraqi people in terms of their health, nutrition, education and prospects for progress. This poses serious future dangers for the region as a whole. Jordan therefore calls for ending this suffering by lifting the sanctions. It also calls for the implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions, including those concerning the Kuwaiti prisoners of war and missing persons. It further calls upon the Security Council to conduct a comprehensive review that would lead to extricating Iraq from this situation and to affirm its position of upholding the territorial integrity of Iraq as one of the main pillars of regional security. Jordan’s geographical location between two extremely complex situations resulting from the consequences of the Middle East crisis in general and the lack of progress in the peace process during the past three years in particular, as well as the continued economic sanctions against Iraq for nine years, has subjected the Jordanian economy to tremendous pressures. Countries with capabilities and resources much greater than Jordan’s would have difficulty coping with them. Although Jordan is committed to implementing an integrated programme of reform and restructuring of its economy and to taking difficult and painful economic measures, the impact of these two situations makes it virtually impossible for Jordan to achieve acceptable levels of economic growth, and it continues to suffer a huge external debt. Viewing the real economic situation of Jordan and the challenges facing it without linking it to the regional 32 environment that affects it does not give a true picture of this situation. While Jordan is grateful for and appreciative of the international community’s support for Jordan’s efforts to cope with its enormous economic challenges, and its assistance to Jordan in playing its central role in maintaining stability in the region, Jordan would like the international community to have a better understanding of its economic problems. From this perspective, we view with special appreciation the final communiqué issued at the Summit meeting of the leaders of the industrialized nations in Cologne last June, which reflected political will to help Jordan and called for the consideration of reducing Jordan’s foreign debt-burden. We hope that the friendly creditor countries will take all possible measures to translate that political will into action, enabling Jordan to reduce its debt burden to a point that allows its economy to be revitalized and to achieve higher growth rates. The tragic situation the people of Kosovo were made to experience severely tested the ability of the international community, at the close of this century, to prevent the crimes of ethnic cleansing and the violation of basic human rights from being committed in a most despicable, racist manner. This matter raises extremely serious and complex questions about the role of the United Nations and the limits that separate the right of States to assert their sovereignty without committing mass crimes against helpless unarmed civilians. There are lessons to be drawn from this bitter human experience. On the one hand, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s ability to put an end to the criminal acts has given clear evidence to all those who harbour thoughts of rebelling against international law and of committing similar acts that they should not presume that their domestic military strength ensures absolute dominance, including violation of human rights. Upholding the principle of sovereignty should not overturn the obligation to observe human rights and international humanitarian law. On the other hand, as Members of this international Organization, we must look into finding mechanisms that ensure the enhancement of the United Nations and its ability to be the framework that expresses the determination of the international community to prevent such crimes, and to be the umbrella for the coordination and organization of collective international action to achieve that goal. That situation has demonstrated the need for formulating a new international order for the twenty-first century, in which all peoples can enjoy respect for their diversity and can participate in the formation of a world conscience that ensures their coexistence. Continued progress by peoples in adopting democracy as a way of life makes it urgent to strengthen democracy within the international system. Since the United Nations is the backbone of the world system, it must evolve in such a way that reflects the new realities in the international arena. Our international community has an urgent need to pause for a real review of the international situation in all its dimensions: political, security, economic, environmental and human rights. We hope that the world summit to be held next year will provide an opportunity for such a review. While we see that many issues and crises considered by the United Nations remain to be resolved, this does not necessarily mean failure on the part of the United Nations as much as it demonstrates the importance of an existing political will to resolve them. Furthermore, the challenges of globalization pose new kinds of global problems, which require harmonious global solutions to the challenges facing developed societies, such as terrorism, drug-trafficking and pollution of the environment, and to the challenges that threaten the developing countries, such as debt, unemployment and economic recession. Such solutions must also strengthen the ability of the developing countries to benefit from the opportunities provided by globalization and to avoid its negative effects by preventing a broadening of the inequalities that lie between them and the developed countries. The persistence of these inequalities will cause the developing countries to remain on the periphery of globalization. Despite the magnitude of the challenges that continue to confront us as we begin the proceedings of this last session of the General Assembly in this century, we should not overlook the many positive steps that have been made recently. The adoption of the Statute of the International Criminal Court was a particularly important measure taken towards confronting and preventing the perpetrators of war crimes and crimes against humanity from escaping punishment. I must also mention the successful conclusion of the first Conference of States Parties on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and On Their Destruction. Such accomplishments contribute to strengthening human security and consolidating the commitment to 33 human rights. They also provide examples of the potential for activating international cooperation in many areas, including the promotion of international commitment to condemning and prohibiting terrorism. In a different context, Jordan welcomes the agreement reached by Libya and the United Nations on the Lockerbie issue. It also commends the strenuous efforts made by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, which contributed to the reaching of an agreement. It calls for the complete lifting of sanctions against Libya, after the removal of the reasons for such sanctions and following the extradition of the two suspects for trial. On the matter of regional crises, we appeal to our friends in Pakistan and India to resort to peaceful means to resolve their conflict and to refrain from any escalation that would seriously endanger the peace of the Indian subcontinent and the whole world. As for the dispute between the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran, Jordan calls for, as it always has, the resolution of this dispute through dialogue based upon mutual respect. It also hopes that Iran will heed the United Arab Emirates’ request to enter into dialogue with a specific timetable and agenda, in order to reach a solution that conforms to international legitimacy, which denies the admissibility of occupation of territory by force. Jordan attaches special importance to maintaining a dialogue between religions and civilizations, in order to bring closer together the views of the various beliefs, religions and civilizations. This will also create a common base for developing humanitarian thought, which calls for peace and cooperation rather than confrontation. These efforts have resulted in creating a greater awareness at the domestic and international levels of the goals of this dialogue. We hope that the United Nations will promote, through its specialized agencies, programmes of dialogue in the various fields of human activity and at all national, regional and international levels. The international community is called upon to use dialogue to combat dangerous discriminatory practices, which we see today, such as Islamophobia. Islam is being subjected to a severe and unjustified attack, which attempts, intentionally or unintentionally, to establish a linkage between Islam and those extremist and terrorist movements that hurt Islam and Muslims by using religion as a tool. Discrimination and arbitrary practices against Muslim populations in various countries are only a result of extremist thinking, far removed from the principles of civilized behaviour and humanity. The international community must consider how to confront this phenomenon of Islamophobia in order to prevent its proliferation. Natural disasters, which have afflicted many countries recently, remind us of a basic fact, which is that we all face phenomena and challenges that do not discriminate between us on the basis of race, religion, wealth or geographical location. While expressing sympathy to our friends in Turkey and Greece, which have been hit by earthquakes recently, and our admiration for the positive sentiments they have expressed to each other in their suffering, we realize that confronting natural dangers and disasters, like confronting other challenges, requires a sincere political will to take collective action in order to preserve the planet, to which we all belong equally. Please allow me to warmly congratulate you, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at this session. I am confident that with your wisdom and experience, you will be able to accomplish your lofty mission successfully. At the same time, I would like to express my appreciation to Mr. Opertti for the contribution he made as President of the General Assembly at its previous session. I also wish to take this opportunity to extend my sincere congratulations to the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga on their admission to the membership of the United Nations. The current session of the General Assembly is of special significance, as it is the last one of this century. A review of the past may help us predict the future. In retrospect, during the past century humanity, on the one hand, created unprecedented material wealth and culture and, on the other, suffered from the scourge of two world wars and the ordeal of the cold war, which lasted for almost 50 years. Since the end of the cold war, the world has been moving towards multipolarity and the overall international situation has started to relax. The maintenance of peace, the pursuit of stability and the promotion of development have become the common aspiration and demand of the people of all countries. Nevertheless, the harsh reality suggests that the world is far from tranquil. The cold-war mentality still lingers on. Hegemonism and power politics have manifested themselves in new expressions. Military blocs are being expanded and reinforced, and there is an increasing tendency towards military intervention. Triggered by ethnic, religious and territorial issues, regional conflicts and disputes continue to emerge one after another. The conflict between the North and the South has become ever more acute. The gap between the rich and the poor continues to grow. World peace is still elusive, and development faces even more serious challenges. Hegemonism and power politics are the root causes of the turmoil in today’s world. The outbreak of war in Kosovo sounded a resounding alarm. A regional military organization, in the name of humanitarianism and human rights, bypassed the United Nations to take large-scale 15 military actions against a sovereign State, thus creating an ominous precedent in international relations. This act was a violation of the United Nations Charter and other universally recognized norms governing international relations. It has eroded the leading role of the United Nations in safeguarding world peace and security and gravely undermined the authority of the United Nations Security Council. During that war, the Chinese Embassy in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was bombed, which caused heavy casualties and much loss of property. It was an incident such as has rarely been seen in diplomatic history, and naturally roused the utmost indignation of the entire Chinese people and the strong condemnation of the international community. As a permanent member of the Security Council, China has held a clear and consistent position on the issue of Kosovo. We seek no selfish interests and are only upholding justice. For the sake of peace, we maintain that the Kosovo issue should be resolved through peaceful negotiations on the basis of respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and with guarantees of the legitimate rights and interest of all ethnic groups in Kosovo. We are opposed to the use of force under any pretext. Mankind is on the threshold of the twenty-first century. Where should the world go? What kind of new international political and economic order should be established? These are urgent questions facing the Governments and the peoples of all countries. The world is undergoing significant and profound changes. A changed world calls for a corresponding new international political and economic order. World peace and development demand the establishment of a just and reasonable new international order, which is the common aspiration of the international community. It should be based on the five principles of peaceful coexistence, the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter and other universally recognized principles governing international relations. In this connection, I wish to highlight the following points. The first relates to sovereign equality and non- interference in the internal affairs of others. Such arguments as human rights taking precedence over sovereignty and humanitarian intervention seem to be in vogue these days. Some countries have even put such arguments into practice. We believe that it is the sacred duty of all Governments to promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, and that all countries have an obligation to promote and protect the human rights and fundamental freedoms of their own peoples in accordance with the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter and international human rights instruments, and in the light of their respective national conditions and relevant laws. But as political systems, levels of economic development, history, cultural background and values vary from country to country, it is only natural that countries should have different interpretations and even diverging views on human rights. Countries should engage in dialogue and exchanges on the basis of equality and mutual respect so as to better understand each other, expand common ground and handle their differences properly, rather than resort to confrontation or interference in the internal affairs of others under the pretext of human rights. The issue of human rights is, in essence, the internal affair of a given country, and should be addressed mainly by the Government of that country through its own efforts. Ours is a diversified world. Each country has the right to choose its own social system, approach to development and values that are suited to its national conditions. The history of China and other developing countries shows that a country’s sovereignty is the prerequisite for and the basis of the human rights that the people of that country can enjoy. When the sovereignty of a country is put in jeopardy, its human rights can hardly be protected effectively. Sovereign equality, mutual respect for State sovereignty and non-interference in the internal affairs of others are the basic principles governing international relations today. In spite of the major changes in the post-cold-war international situation, these principles are by no means out of date. Any deviation from or violation of these principles would destroy the universally recognized norms governing international relations, and would lead to the rule of hegemonism; if the notion of “might is right” should prevail, a new gun- boat policy would wreak havoc, the sovereignty and independence by virtue of which some small and weak countries protect themselves would be jeopardized and international peace and stability would be seriously endangered. The Kosovo crisis has proved that to engage in so- called humanitarian intervention in a sovereign State with neither a mandate from the Security Council nor the prior consent of the country concerned will cause a greater humanitarian catastrophe instead of resolving the problem. In view of this, under the current circumstances, the principles of respect for State sovereignty and non- interference in the internal affairs of others must be 16 effectively strengthened rather than weakened in order to maintain world peace and stability. The second principle is the pacific settlement of international disputes. This principle, initiated by the Hague peace conference 100 years ago, is now an important principle of the United Nations Charter and a basic principle of contemporary international law. History shows that deviation from this principle over the past century has led to, “the scourge of war, which twice ... has brought untold sorrow to mankind”, and to foreign aggression, which has inflicted tremendous suffering on the peoples of a number of countries. In the current international situation, adherence to the principle of the pacific settlement of international disputes is still highly relevant to the contemporary world. The pacific settlement of international disputes is predicated on the non-use and non-threat of force in international relations. We maintain that handling State-to- State relations with the mentality and modalities of “hot” wars, cold wars, power politics or bloc politics will get nowhere. All international disputes and regional conflicts should be resolved in a fair and reasonable manner through peaceful negotiation and consultation on the basis of equality, rather than through the arbitrary use or threat of force based on the power of military superiority. Only in this way can fundamental solutions to disputes or conflicts be found without complicating or aggravating them or leaving behind a hidden peril. And only in this way can States coexist in harmony and achieve common development. This is the only way to lasting peace and stability in the world. Otherwise, the world will never be a tranquil place. The third principle relates to strengthening the role of the United Nations and preserving the authority of the Security Council. The role of the United Nations is indispensable for the achievement of genuine peace and development and for the establishment of a just and reasonable new international order. Strengthening the role of the United Nations is in line with the historical trend; it meets the needs of the times and conforms to the shared aspiration of all the world’s peoples. In order to strengthen the role of the United Nations, efforts should first be made to uphold the sanctity of the purposes and principles of the Charter. The most important reason why the United Nations has been able to grow from 51 founding Members to its current size is that it has acted according to these purposes and principles. Those purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations have already taken deep root in international practice and form a legal basis on which peaceful and friendly relations between countries are guided. It is the view of the Chinese Government that despite the great changes that have taken place in the international situation, the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter are still relevant. We are opposed to any irresponsible interpretation or revision of them, with whatever excuse. If the United Nations role is to be strengthened, the authority of the Security Council must be preserved. According to the provisions of the Charter, the Security Council shoulders primary responsibility for safeguarding international peace and security. It has been proved that the role of the Security Council is irreplaceable. Given the current circumstances, it is imperative to preserve its authority and leading role. Any act to weaken this authority or to impose the will of an individual country or a group of countries on the Security Council is very dangerous. Instead of contributing to the maintenance of peace, it will further breed power politics and hegemonism and will give rise to endless troubles. If the United Nations role is to be strengthened, it is essential to ensure that all Member States have the right to equal participation in international affairs, so that their reasonable propositions will be fully reflected and their legitimate rights and interests protected by the United Nations. Decisions adopted by the United Nations must give expression to the common will of the majority of its Member States. Any attempt by a few countries or a group of countries to monopolize world affairs and decide the destiny of the people of other countries goes against the trend of the times and will never succeed. Fourthly, we must foster a new security concept and safeguard international security. The old security concept is based on military alliance and arms build-up and does not help safeguard international security, still less build a lasting peace in the world. In today’s world it is necessary to foster a new security concept that satisfies the needs of the times and to explore new ways of maintaining peace and security. The core of the new security concept should be mutual trust, mutual benefit, equality and cooperation. The Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence and the purposes of the United Nations Charter are the political foundation for the maintenance of international security, while mutually beneficial cooperation and common development constitute its economic guarantee. Dialogue on an equal footing, full consultation and peaceful negotiations are the right way to maintain international security. 17 Relaxation in the international situation and the disarmament process are complementary to each other. It is regrettable, however, that some recent negative developments in the international situation have seriously hindered the healthy development of the disarmament process. How to promote the disarmament process, prevent an arms race and safeguard international security have become pressing concerns for the international community. We are opposed to any attempt, on the basis of excuses that are not genuine, to seek military strength that goes beyond a country’s legitimate defence needs. We are also opposed to any attempt to restrict and weaken other countries in the name of disarmament and non-proliferation in order to seek absolute, unilateral security supremacy for one country or group of countries. We call on the international community to take the new security concept as a guideline and wholeheartedly promote the healthy development of the disarmament process, in the interest of world peace and security. Fifthly, we must reform the international economic system and promote the common development of all countries. The old and irrational economic order has seriously impeded the sound development of the world economy, further widening the wealth gap between the North and the South. The East Asian financial crisis that broke out two years ago has affected many countries in the world. To prevent financial risks and ensure economic security has become an urgent task facing many countries, especially the developing countries. The world economy is an interrelated and indivisible whole. All members of the international community should take a responsible approach and, in a spirit of risk sharing, strengthen their cooperation and jointly promote a steady growth of the world economy. Therefore, it is necessary to reform the current international economic and financial systems. The United Nations and the international financial institutions should earnestly construct a framework to prevent and overcome financial and other economic risks. Accordingly, the developed countries should take on more obligations. The developing countries have the right to equal participation in world economic decision-making and the formulation of relevant rules. In the new round of negotiations that will soon begin in the World Trade Organization, the reasonable demands of developing countries should be fully reflected. Cooperation should be strengthened on the basis of mutual benefit. No country should prejudice other countries’ economic security and development by virtue of its economic, technological and financial advantages. We should all oppose trade discrimination, the rich bullying the poor and the arbitrary resort to economic sanctions or the threat of sanctions against other countries. The developed and developing countries both have their own advantages and should learn from each other to make up for their deficiencies so as to achieve common sustainable development. Moreover, on such global issues as the environment, population, poverty and debt the developed countries should not shirk their responsibility and obligation; rather, they should take the lead in providing technological and financial assistance to the developing countries. We deem it necessary for the United Nations to hold a special conference at an appropriate time to discuss the globalization of the world economy, in order to promote international cooperation in this field and to achieve common prosperity. The People’s Republic of China will soon celebrate its fiftieth anniversary. For half a century, especially in the last 21 years of reform and opening-up, earth-shaking changes have taken place in China, and the Chinese people have scored tremendous achievements in socialist economic, political and cultural development as well as in diplomatic and other endeavours. Following Hong Kong’s return to the motherland the year before last, the Chinese Government will soon resume the exercise of sovereignty over Macao. At present, China enjoys political stability, sustained economic growth, national unity, social tranquillity and progress. Although difficulties and serious challenges still lie ahead, we are confident and capable of overcoming the difficulties, rising to the challenges and forging ahead with every aspect of the socialist cause of building a strong, prosperous, democratic and culturally advanced country. In the face of international vicissitudes, the Chinese Government will steadfastly take up economic development as the central task, resolutely press ahead with reform and opening up, consistently maintain social stability and unswervingly pursue an independent foreign policy of peace. We are willing to continue to develop friendly relations and cooperation on the basis of the five principles of peaceful coexistence with all other countries in the world and to make our due contribution to safeguarding world peace and promoting common development. The Chinese Government and people will, as always, resolutely safeguard China's sovereignty and territorial integrity and will continue to advance the great cause of national reunification. It is a fact universally recognized by the international community that there is only one 18 China in the world, that Taiwan is an inalienable part of Chinese territory and that the Government of the People's Republic of China is the sole legitimate government representing the whole of China. China's territory and sovereignty are absolutely indivisible. The ultimate reunification of the motherland represents the common aspiration and firm resolve of all the Chinese people, including our compatriots on Taiwan. No force can hold us back in this great cause. The Chinese Government will continue to adhere to its established policy for settling the question of Taiwan. We are firmly opposed to any efforts to create “independence for Taiwan”, “two Chinas”, or “one China, one Taiwan”. All moves to divide the motherland are doomed to failure. China's great cause of national reunification can and will be accomplished. A few days ago a powerful earthquake shook China's province of Taiwan. This earthquake caused heavy loss of life and property damage for our compatriots in Taiwan. We are extremely concerned about this catastrophe and express our sympathy to our compatriots on the island. We also express our condolences to the families of the victims of the earthquake. People on both sides of the strait are brothers and sisters in one big family. The disaster that hit Taiwan and the pains of our compatriots on the island are shared by the entire Chinese people. We will provide every possible support and assistance to alleviate the harm caused by the earthquake. I take this opportunity to thank the President of the General Assembly and the international community as a whole for their sympathy, condolences and assistance. The twenty-first century is dawning. The future of the world is bright, and the new century is bound to be a more splendid one than this. The Chinese people stand ready to work with the people of other countries for the establishment of a just and rational new international order, for peace and development in the new century, and for the overall progress of human society. I extend my congratulations to Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty- fourth session. I wish him success in guiding the work of the Assembly. It gives me great pleasure to extend my thanks to his predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, for his effective work as President of the Assembly at its previous session. I wish him similar success in his future endeavours. Allow me on this occasion to congratulate the three new Members on their admission to the United Nations. 4 Allow me also, on behalf of my Government, to express appreciation to the Secretary-General, for his tireless work and laudable efforts in the midst of an international situation that can be described — at best — as difficult and complicated. Of course the international situation is truly difficult and complicated. It is no coincidence that as we meet in this forum to discuss the affairs and state of the world today — at this, the last session of the century, the beginning of a new century, a new age that we once hoped would be different from the old — we find ourselves obliged to discuss the same problems and the same disputes that we have been facing for over half a century. Is this not truly deplorable and even outrageous? Does not this reality constitute categorical evidence that all of us — States, peoples and regional and international organizations — have failed to learn enough from the lessons of the past, that we have not benefited from our past experiences enough and that we have not sought as much as we should have, to overcome our past limitations and shortcomings? What do we see when we look at our world today? We see bloody conflicts that we have not yet been able to stop and chronic crises that still await solutions that would end the spiral of violence and suffering. Moreover, we find that the world remains reluctant or even unable to address problems and crises that are far removed, in terms of content, from the course of daily politics but whose effects and ramifications are no less dangerous than the topical crises and conflicts that threaten our existence. We must ask ourselves: What have we done, as we stand on the threshold of the third millennium, to prepare ourselves to meet the challenges of poverty, misery, unemployment, illiteracy, disease, the spread of epidemics and the exploitation of children? What have we done to prepare ourselves to cope with the dangers of organized crime, international terrorism and drug trafficking? Have we really understood the threat of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the possibility that they may be used at any time and anywhere? What of the real dangers besetting our planet as a result of environmental degradation, climate change, the scarcity of water resources, the shortage of raw materials, the deteriorating phenomena of drought and desertification and the increasing frequency of natural disasters? Have we at least begun to draft guidelines and comprehensive universal plans to confront these global threats, which do not differentiate between nationalities, races, colours or creeds and which most certainly recognize no political, geographical, economic and social borders among nations and peoples? Simply put, have we, as States, Governments and international organizations, begun adjusting our priorities so as to place the goals of development, progress, education, health, high living standards and decent life for our peoples ahead of the aims of conflict, disputes and vengeance, no matter how historical, profound or sensitive? I cannot answer yes to any of these questions. There is nothing in this statement to criticize anyone or detract from their resolve or intentions. It is a sad universal reality that requires our cooperation and joint efforts if we truly hope to prepare ourselves for the future and its tasks and changes. To that end, I see no better or more comprehensive framework for this mission than this international Organization, which we believe to be the qualified and appropriate institution for defining the future of our world. All of us, regardless of our interests and our narrow, topical political calculations, must provide the United Nations and its agencies with all the means necessary for it to play such an important role. We are convinced that this can be achieved only with universal will, for in the final analysis, the United Nations is the sum total of its Member States. We are also convinced of the need to reform the United Nations and to enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of its bodies and agencies. Similarly, it is incumbent upon us, the States Members of the Organization, to assume our political responsibility and respect our moral and financial commitments to it. Furthermore, in this context, we support the idea of expanding the Security Council to make it more democratic and representative of the international community in the modern world. We also support the idea of expanding the permanent membership of the Council so as to ensure greater universal representation on it. The same applies to restricting the use of the veto by the permanent members and to regulating the capacity to use this right under agreed and specific terms and conditions. It is perhaps not exaggerated optimism or expectation on my part when I say that we consider this to be an essential and vital step towards consecrating the sound concept of globalization, as we see it and as it must be in the twenty-first century. We believe that globalization must be a comprehensive mechanism in the 5 service of the general welfare of all nations and peoples. If its benefits are confined to certain States and societies, to the exclusion of others, it will fail to achieve its objectives. On this basis, we believe that globalization should be the means by which we promote cooperation, interaction and openness among the peoples and societies of the world. We can thus steer globalization away from the pitfalls of narrow exploitation and short-term profit and towards a universal scope whose benefits and returns reach everyone. It is here that we feel that a new and extremely vital role will emerge for the United Nations in the twenty-first century — a role in which the Organization will assume leadership of the trend towards globalization and consecrate it, especially in the fields of cooperation, cultural and educational exchanges, social and economic development, the defence of human rights, strengthening peace and stability and consolidating the bases of cultural openness among nations and peoples. We will thus have taken the first essential steps towards the establishment of the new international order that we thought we had achieved at the end the cold war and the age of international polarization, which lasted 50 years after the end of the Second World War. The new international order to which we aspired did not materialize. Unfortunately, and in spite of the many initiatives and indications that had once seemed encouraging, the world instead soon fell into a new spiral of disagreements, disputes and regional, bilateral and internal conflicts. These seemed to be the direct results of the political vacuum left in the wake of the cold war. At the same time, new conflicts and disputes have joined the series of historically chronic crises that have plagued our world for decades and for which no effective solutions have been found. We may discuss the future and a new world in which we seek to achieve the aspirations of all peoples to prosperity, progress and stability, but the priority of spending on arms and military purposes still prevails over all others, especially in the developing and poor regions of the world, where the need for resources for social and economic growth and development is paramount. In the meantime, economic conditions in these regions continue to deteriorate, social crises are exacerbated and living standards are plummeting ever faster. Naturally, these are not the only problems. In the midst of such a vicious circle, the political crises facing these societies are intensified in turn and soon evolve into significant threats, not only to their security and internal fabric, but also to their neighbours. Particularly disturbing is the fact that this phenomenon has spread and expanded into several regions of the world. In this regard, and on behalf of my country, Qatar, I cannot but express satisfaction at the results of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) operation in the Balkans. In the same context, my Government has followed with concern the events that have unfolded in East Timor in recent weeks. Qatar hopes for the success of the international efforts currently under way to restore peace and security. At the same time, we stress the hope that the Republic of Indonesia will transcend this difficult ordeal and reclaim its prominent position in South-East Asia and in the ranks of the international community as a whole. While some recent developments have provided relatively reassuring indications of the possibility of settling regional and internal conflicts, given the resolve and the international will to do so, we find it necessary to recall here that we would have preferred that such international endeavours had taken place in a pre-emptive context that would have prevented the crises and the ensuing tragedies and suffering, instead of subsequent efforts aimed at salvaging whatever remained to be salvaged. We express this concern and call for further international efforts to settle crises and to put an end to wars and conflicts because we in the State of Qatar profoundly believe in the right of peoples to live in freedom and peace. We also believe in the need to establish international relations on the basis of friendship, cooperation, mutual respect, common interests and good- neighbourliness. Proceeding from this, my country stands firmly and unambiguously in support of the settlement of differences and disputes in the Gulf region by peaceful means and through dialogue, negotiations, or international arbitration in order to consolidate security and stability in the region. We also wish to place on record my Government's satisfaction at some of the positive developments and encouraging signs that we have noticed during the past months regarding the settlement of a number of questions that have long been a source of concern in our region. We welcome the progress made in settling the Lockerbie matter and congratulate our Libyan brothers on that, hoping that this file will be closed and this matter concluded as soon as possible and in a way that will ensure the rights and interests of all parties. 6 Notwithstanding the positive indications and trends, which we welcome and hope will be strengthened, the general regional situation is still, to our great regret, far removed from the comprehensive peace, the lasting stability and the modes of cooperation, development and progress that we seek and desire for our region. The Iraqi crisis and its continuous repercussions on security and stability in the Gulf and the Middle East, and the cruel suffering of the fraternal Iraqi people, are all elements that cause great concern and prompt us to do our utmost in order to put an end to this crisis. We believe it is high time that we overcame the Iraqi crisis and found effective solutions to it so that the sanctions imposed against Iraq can be lifted and the cruel suffering of its peoples can be terminated. We have always resorted to diplomatic solutions, in accordance with international resolutions, in order to ensure the preservation of the territorial integrity and national unity of Iraq and to spare it and the entire region further dangers and agony. There naturally remains the essential question, which in our view has been the main source of tension and crises in our region for more than half a century, and that is the question of Palestine and the Arab-Israeli conflict. I must say that we in the State of Qatar, together with our Arab brothers, have committed ourselves to peace as a permanent strategic option, a commitment which still stands. However, the peace process has regrettably failed to attain its envisaged results. Rather, this process has suffered setbacks over the past years, the responsibility for which, in our view, lies with the former Israeli Government, which opted to retreat from its commitments and pursued policies that prevented any progress in the peace process and in negotiations on its various tracks. We welcome the changes that have taken place in the Israeli Government as a result of the recent general elections and in light of the formation of the new Government under the leadership of Mr. Ehud Barak and his stated intention to pursue peace more earnestly. However, we feel that such gestures must be coupled with concrete steps that would demonstrate good faith on the Israeli side and sincere readiness to meet its obligations by implementing the agreements concluded on all tracks during the previous stages of the negotiations, and to seek a resumption of the negotiations on the Syrian and Lebanese tracks as soon as possible, on the basis of the resolutions of international legitimacy and the principle of land for peace. Perhaps it suffices here to recall the recent affirmation by His Highness, Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani, the Emir of the State of Qatar, in explaining my country's firm position on this matter. In our view, there can be no solution to this conflict nor peace in the Middle East except through a permanent, just and comprehensive settlement, based on the established principles that form the foundations of the peace process. This means the implementation of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978); full Israeli withdrawal from the occupied Syrian Golan Heights to the border of 4 June 1967 and from southern Lebanon and its western Bekaa valley, to the internationally recognized borders, and the regaining by the Palestinian people of their legitimate national and political rights, foremost among which is their natural right to self-determination and to the establishment of their independent State, with Jerusalem as its capital: the city of peace, the land of tolerance and the cradle of divine revelations, where religions have always coexisted in harmony and concord. We must express concern over the continued presence of weapons of mass destruction in the region, especially nuclear weapons that are available exclusively to one side, the Israeli side. In our view, this constitutes a strategic imbalance and a threat to peace and security. Therefore, we believe in the need for the complete elimination of weapons of mass destruction from our region, as an integral and complementary part of the peace process. We also call on Israel to accede to the international treaties providing for the limitation and non- proliferation of such weapons. Peace, in our view, cannot be one-sided, nor can its benefits accrue exclusively on one side. Therefore, we sincerely look forward to the day when a balanced, just, comprehensive and genuine peace reigns in our region. Then we can speak of such advantages and benefits of peace as security, cooperation, stability, prosperity and progress for all the States and peoples in our region without exception. We look forward to that day because we truly yearn to see a new Middle East, which enters the new millennium in a climate of peace, security and democracy; a climate in which we all respect pluralism of opinions, diversity of approaches and the right of peoples and States to self-determination, to better living standards and to living in freedom, prosperity and dignity, in conformity with their lofty beliefs and values. This is one of the basic human rights we cherish. Our belief stems foremost from our profound belief in God Almighty and in His divine revelations with which He blessed all mankind. 7 This process of working for a better future and for our peoples imbues us with the utmost hope that we will be able to achieve the objective of building a new world worthy of our young generations which will inhabit it in the third millennium. As we are about to draw the curtain on an old century and welcome the dawn of a new one, we must pledge to our children that we will do our utmost so that their world will be a better world, more capable and better equipped to respond to their ambitions and aspirations. First of all, I would like on behalf of the delegation of the Kyrgyz Republic to congratulate Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab on his election as President of the General Assembly for the current session. We hope that, as a result of his great experience, our work during this session will be successful. At the threshold of the third millennium a most pressing issue is facing humanity: the establishment of the new world order, which will affect the nature of the world in the future. The issue concerns all members of the international community, regardless of their place or the role they play in international relations. The continuing threat of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction; problems involving the protection of the environment; technological and natural disasters; unresolved conflicts, terrorism and all forms of extremism, illegal trafficking in narcotics; the arms trade — these are serious sources of tension throughout the world. Recent events related to the settlement of the problem of Kosovo are another reminder of the huge price that continues to be paid in human suffering. Kyrgyzstan is striving to make a positive contribution to the achievement of the global goal of establishing a new world order founded on security, stability and prosperity. We wish to demonstrate to the international community our commitment to such universal principles as democracy, respect for human rights, support for market economies, the pursuit of good- neighbourly relations, stability and security — not only in our region but throughout the world. The years since our independence have convinced us that for Kyrgyzstan there is no more rational foreign policy than a balanced, multipolar approach focusing on the development of friendly, consistent relations both with States that play an important role in regional and world affairs and with those in which our country shares pragmatic interests. 29 Among the major international events for the Kyrgyz Republic in recent years I wish to mention the admission of our country into the World Trade Organization; the adoption, at the fifty-third session of the General Assembly, of a resolution — resolution 53/24 — proclaiming the year 2002 as the International Year of Mountains; and the elaboration by Askar Akayev, President of the Kyrgyz Republic, of the Silk Road diplomacy doctrine. President Akayev's Silk Road foreign policy is based on the ideas of global interdependence and of reviving the Silk Road as a bridge joining countries and civilizations so as to develop in the third millennium an intensive, multilevel, multifaceted system of communication between civilizations. It is no accident that the philosophy behind the Silk Road diplomacy doctrine carries over to the Republic's other foreign policy initiatives of recent years. These include the holding in Kyrgyzstan, under the auspices of the United Nations, of an international conference on Afghanistan; the proclamation of the year 2002 as the International Year of Mountains; and the active participation of Kyrgyzstan in the establishment of a Central Asian nuclear-weapon-free zone. In particular, enshrined in the doctrine is the idea that, given the current situation, reliable and dynamic political and commercial relations cannot be established without the strengthening of multilateral relations of mutual cooperation and trust between all the States of the region. The Silk Road policy requires Kyrgyzstan to establish and develop as fully as possible such relations with the countries of Central Asia in all sectors and cooperative areas, including the maintenance of regional and global security. The mutual cooperation of China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia and Tajikistan within the framework of what is called the Shanghai Five is one of the most positive factors for the maintenance of security in Central Asia, and for Central Asia's development, and for its transformation into a region of peace, good-neighbourly relations and prosperity. Since the first meeting of the heads of State of the Shanghai Five and the signing of the agreement on confidence-building in connection with military activities in the border areas, the countries involved have, through friendly consultations, been able to generally settle border issues and reduce the armed forces present in the border areas. We have established and strengthened cooperation and with it increased security, peace and calm along the borders. From 24 to 25 August 1999, in Bishkek, the fourth summit of the heads of State of the Shanghai Five took place. As participants pointed out, we are now seeing a transformation among the Shanghai Five. Whereas in the past the group focused on military and political cooperation, now it is defining major directions for trade and economic cooperation. The role of the Bishkek summit in this context was to transform these understandings into practical actions. It is necessary specifically to point out the unique format of the five in the context of which countries of varying size, with different state systems, levels of economic development and military strength are cooperating. A concrete demonstration of this was the signing in Bishkek of an additional border agreement between China and Kyrgyzstan, which effectively removed from the agenda the question of inter-State demarcation and established a real basis for the transformation of the Kyrgyzstan-China border into a border of peace and mutual cooperation in the twenty-first century. Kyrgyzstan continues to participate actively in the process of creating a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia. An important role in the successful implementation of this initiative is being played by the consultative meeting of experts of regional countries, held under United Nations auspices. We feel that the rapid conversion of Central Asia into a nuclear-weapon-free zone is becoming a multidimensional issue, since the achievement of this goal will favour profound positive progress on the global, regional and subregional levels, as well as in the area of bilateral relations between the countries of our region. It will also be in harmony with the world community's aspirations to establish a safe nuclear-free future. As is well known, dramatic events have recently taken place in southern Kyrgyzstan in connection with the incursion into Kyrgyz territory of well-armed bandit groups of international terrorists with many years of experience fighting in Afghanistan and Tajikistan. As a result of the illegal actions of these terrorists, who are members of the implacable radical wing of Islamic extremism, a tense situation has emerged in the Batken and Chon-Alai areas of Osh Province. International terrorists have behaved barbarically, taking foreign hostages and murdering peaceful citizens. The bandits and the forces behind them have made brazen, arrogant and far-reaching attempts to impose their extremist views on the country and have decisively and irrevocably chosen the path of attacking peaceful democratic States and economic and social reforms. They have threatened the 30 security and destroyed the tranquility of each and every State of Central Asia. We are deeply concerned at having to confront such phenomena as the internationalization of Islamic extremism. Among the terrorists invading our country, we have observed not only representatives of States of Central Asia, but also foreign mercenaries. Events in southern Kyrgyzstan and in Dagestan, Russia, are links in the same chain, forged by international Islamic extremists seeking their own criminal objectives. These international bandits seek refuge behind the noble values of Islam, which they roughly flout, sowing death and suffering among peaceful populations. I wish to stress in particular the staunch and committed support of our friendly neighbours — including Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Russia — for Kyrgyzstan's efforts to eradicate these bandit groups. The States of the region have shown the international community their firm desire to work together and to coordinate their efforts in confronting international terrorism. In turn, Kyrgyzstan expresses its deep-seated hope for reciprocal support from the world community in its struggle against international terrorism, which is a worldwide threat. In this context, Kyrgyzstan highly commends the support and solidarity of the States members of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence-building Measures in Asia, meeting at the level of Foreign Ministers in Almaty on 14 September. The Conference adopted a joint declaration on the situation in Kyrgyzstan in which it condemned the criminal activities of terrorists and expressed solidarity and support for my Government's fight against terrorism. The criminal acts of international terrorists in southern Kyrgyzstan have reinforced the need for a speedy settlement of the armed conflict in Afghanistan. It is becoming ever more apparent that the designs of the Islamic extremists based in Afghanistan and of the forces behind them are spreading their destabilizing influence throughout Central Asia through terror, murder, hostage- taking and drug and weapons trafficking. In this connection, I wish particularly to point out that the ongoing illegal transshipment of narcotics from Afghanistan across the territories of the Central Asian countries is a primary source of financing for the criminal activities of the Islamic extremists. We feel that the world community must take the most decisive measures to prevent these Islamic extremists from sowing violence, chaos and triumphal obscurantism in Central Asia. Kyrgyzstan intends broadly to support the efforts of the international community in the context of the “six plus two” group. In turn, striving to make our own contribution to the early settlement of the internal Afghanistan conflict, which has become a breeding ground for Islamic extremism in the region, our country is ready to provide facilities for the convening, under United Nations auspices, of a conference on peace in Afghanistan. Highly appreciating the importance to the international community of the United Nations as a universal Organization, Kyrgyzstan is profoundly interested in the successful reform of its work. We support comprehensive reform, which should encompass all the organs of the United Nations, including the Security Council, which must vigorously address all aspects of human development. The Kyrgyz Republic confirms its view of the need to expand Security Council membership and is also in favour of equitable geographical representation in both categories. There is no doubt that the process of reforming the United Nations should reflect upon the work of all its agencies. In our country today, we are seeing the successful work of such United Nations specialized agencies as the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Children's Fund, the United Nations Population Fund, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and others. We feel that effectiveness and results are the main criteria in assessing their work. It is necessary to give heightened attention to the work of those agencies from which we can obtain maximum output. In this connection, there needs to be more active efforts to enhance the quality of work to implement concrete measures designed to resolve socio- economic, cultural, humanitarian and legal issues. In this respect, I wish to highlight the important role played by UNDP, as the Organization's basic financing and coordination agency, to strengthen United Nations development efforts in such countries as Kyrgyzstan. In 1998, Kyrgyzstan became a pilot country in UNDP's new result-based approach. The results of the work of this system, which have been mainstreamed in all UNDP offices and headquarters, are being planned for use in a multi-year funding framework. We hope that this system will become an effective means of attracting additional funding. In this connection, we cannot fail to be concerned by the reduction in and unpredictability of UNDP core resources. We wish to appeal from this rostrum to the Governments of donor countries to 31 undertake to study closely the possibility of increasing, through UNDP, their assistance to States with economies in transition. In this difficult period for countries such as my own, assistance rendered through UNDP and other specialized agencies is an important factor in the strengthening of our independence, stability and progress. In conclusion, I wish to stress Kyrgyzstan's readiness to cooperate with all Members of the United Nations in achieving progress on a broad number of issues on the agenda of this final session of the millennium.   Allow me, to begin, Sir, by congratulating you on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Angola, and on my own behalf, on your election as president of the General Assembly at this fifty- fourth session. Your election to such an important post is recognition of your experience, ability and diplomatic capacity, as well as of Namibia’s role internationally. Angola and Namibia not only share a long common border, but also have close political, economic, cultural and historical links. We sincerely hope that your mandate will be crowned with success. Our congratulations also go to the outgoing President, Mr. Didier Opertti, for the excellent work carried out during his mandate. To the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan, we would like also to express our thanks for the wise and transparent manner in which he has led our Organization. It is also a pleasure for us to welcome the new members of the United Nations, the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. Their accession reflects the universal nature of the principles and rules of the United Nations Charter. Angola is convinced that these States will be able to successfully take up their responsibilities, thereby contributing to the strengthening of our Organization and the stability and development of the South Pacific region and the world as a whole. For half a century, the Organization has carried out activities to promote the ideals contained in its Charter. With the end of the cold war we thought that large-scale fratricidal wars would be things of the past; that the world would no longer experience tension and insecurity; that by now we would be in a position to welcome a narrowing of the gap between the rich and poor countries; that a significant part of humanity would be free from the danger of dying of poverty and misery. However, these things have not happened. The world is hostage to itself. There is a plethora of new armed conflicts as a result of hatred and racial, ethnic and religious intolerance; of the denial of people’s right to self-determination; and even of the unfathomable ambition of certain politicians to take power by force or to attempt to thwart peoples’ sovereign will to choose their own destinies. The proliferation of armed conflicts is, to some extent, a reflection of the absence of an international security system under the aegis of the United Nations that would be able to respond immediately and correctly to potential conflicts. Despite instability in various areas of the world, there has been a weak commitment to establishing such a security system because of a lack of political will on the part of certain members of the international community. This indicates that the world is still very far from achieving the long-desired peace and development. Worse yet is the fact that certain entities of international law approach the need for peace in the world from a perspective of material and global strategic interests — and at the expense of the universal human values. It weighs on our conscience to see that we still have a long way to go to find solutions to situations of this nature, and that the international community’s reactions to similar situations of human suffering are not consistent. These facts might lead us to believe that we are dealing with a double standard and with measured policies that are at variance with the spirit and letter of 32 the Charter of the United Nations. The United Nations and the international community as a whole have the political, legal and moral duty to work a little harder, so that peoples facing the scourge of the war will be able to achieve lasting peace. The main objective of the United Nations can be achieved worldwide, provided that there is coherence and determination in the application of principles and decisions. The global tolerance of impunity has been encouraging the leaders of the rebel groups proliferating throughout the world to carry out their terrorist and destructive campaigns, the main victim of which is civil society. The differential treatment accorded to identical situations of systematic and massive violations of human rights and the war crimes that are occurring in some areas of the world makes it impossible for the international justice system to act with the required effectiveness in dealing with some of the most barbaric and bloodthirsty criminals that Africa has seen this century. We are convinced that if the political and moral power of the United Nations were exerted against all the perpetrators of serious crimes, it would dishearten all those who might be willing to resort to subversion and terrorism. Thus the international community would be preventing the emergence of new conflicts. We are fully aware that States have the primary responsibility for paving the way for the prevention of conflicts. The implementation of democracy, which may promote respect for human rights and the establishment of neighbourly relations, may be able to contribute to preventing the occurrence of conflicts. Indeed, many of the current crises would not have lasted long if the States involved in them had, in good faith, fully complied with their international obligations as set forth in the Charter of the United Nations and as established by regional organizations. I refer in particular to the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of other States. For this reason, the mechanisms for the fulfilment of such international obligations by States should be further reinforced. The Government of the Republic of Angola commends the work undertaken by the Secretary-General regarding the reinforcement of the preventive diplomacy mechanisms. However, the increase in the number of wars, particularly since 1998, leads us to conclude that the efforts in this regard still fall short of reaching the objectives. It is thus necessary for us to strive to create the institutional capacity for conflict prevention, including regional early-warning mechanisms. Regarding conflict resolution, Angola’s experiences force us to stress that there is an urgent need to re-define methods and strategies, mainly in the field of peacekeeping operations. Other factors underlying the limited success of some peacekeeping missions carried out under the aegis of the United Nations are: the obvious frailty of the verification systems of peace agreements; the tendency to treat similarly the violator and the fulfiller of these agreements; the overlooking of early signs that suggest a lack of political will and ill-faith by one of the sides; and the subsequent delayed application of coercive measures. As a member State of the international community we need to rely on and have recourse to the United Nations in its important role regarding the issues of peacekeeping and security in the world. Angola will continue to believe that, in order to establish peace in the world, the United Nations role is of paramount importance. We simply want to suggest that, given the current international situation, this role should be played in a more realistic and effective way, with a view to living up to the expectations of people eager for peace and to ensuring the credibility of our Organization. I would like now to refer to the situation in Angola, where five years have passed since the Lusaka Protocol was signed between the Government and UNITA. However, the main tasks involved in attaining a lasting peace have not yet been achieved. In particular, UNITA has not been completely disarmed and State authority has not been restored in the illegally occupied areas. Rather, the persistent refusal of the rebels to fully honour their obligations and their preference for taking power by force have plunged the country into a new era of violence. Following this rejection of the people’s will, as expressed at the polls during the 1992 general elections, and the non-fulfilment of the provisions of the three peace accords entered into with the Government — in 1989 in Gbadolite, in the former Zaire; in 1991 in Portugal and in 1994 in Lusaka — Mr. Savimbi is still interested in continuing his destabilization campaign. This includes preventing the smooth running of the democratic institutions; destroying cities, towns, villages, infrastructure and public and private assets; and mercilessly killing civilians. In this way he has been condemning to misery, disease and famine all of the people in Angola. As a result of these actions, in addition to the thousands of civilians who have already been killed, 33 almost 3 million others have left their homes in search of refuge in the Government-controlled areas. Those communities require humanitarian assistance from the international community. In the framework of the implementation of the Lusaka Protocol, the Government has, in good faith, undertaken all the tasks provided for it in the peace accords, in spite of the fact that Savimbi and his military wing have resumed the war. The Government continues to ensure the functioning of the democratic institutions resulting from the general elections, and UNITA members are represented in the Government and the parliament. In the national armed forces, military troops, officials and soldiers appointed by UNITA remain faithful to the ideals of democracy and national accord. Only Mr. Savimbi and a fairly reduced number of qualified personnel who remain faithful to him are still interested in making war with a view to taking power. All of Savimbi’s propaganda of recent years has merely been playing for time and anticipating that developments on the international scene might come out in his favour. His false messages on negotiations, allowing him time to prepare the ground for new military adventures, are elements of that strategy. Indeed, what remains to be done in the Angolan peace process is to enforce what was negotiated in-depth at Lusaka over an entire year, particularly the disarming of all of Mr. Jonas Savimbi’s military forces and the restoration of state administration throughout the national territory. The Angolan Government has long waited for Savimbi to decide to opt for peace. Angola is currently facing other political and economic challenges that cannot be indefinitely postponed as a result of the actions of a single power- hungry individual who considers war to be the only way to fulfil his personal plans. Furthermore, in rejecting Savimbi’s posture, many UNITA militants and leaders have distanced him from the party. These women and men are working in good faith to consolidate the Angolan democratic process. Given Savimbi’s obstructionist behaviour, the Security Council decided to impose global mandatory sanctions against UNITA, including the prohibition of international travel for top UNITA officials directly involved in the Angola war project. In the same vein, and as a result of the crimes that Savimbi has been committing against the civilian population, the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the Southern African Development Community (SADC) declared him a war criminal and thus an unreliable stakeholder in the implementation of peace in Angola. The Non-Aligned Movement, in its ministerial meeting of 23 September 1999 held here in New York, expressed its strong support for the resolution adopted at the recent OAU Summit, which deems Mr. Savimbi a war criminal and requires that he be treated as such by the entire international community. We trust that there is no further doubt about the criminal nature of Mr. Savimbi or the need for him to be held responsible internationally for his crimes and actions. The Angolan Government reiterates its ongoing commitment to paving the way for a lasting peace and, to that end, to making use of all the means at its disposal, and undertakes to proceed with the process of national reconciliation and social democratization. A clear demonstration of its commitment is the fact that, despite the war climate pervading the country, at no time whatsoever has the Government denied the rights and individual liberties of citizens or of national legal political forces. In the framework of the political reforms initiated in 1991, a new constitution is being prepared in a process in which all political parties are participating. The new constitutional text will reinforce the rule of law and consolidate the type of society that we intend to establish in Angola: an economically prosperous one under democratic rule of law and a State of social justice. In the economic context, the reforms will follow their course with a view to reinforcing the creation of other conditions for an effective market economy and of a more favourable environment for foreign investment. In order to meet these challenges, we call for the support and solidarity of the international community, particularly regarding the implementation of sanctions imposed by the Security Council against UNITA, so that Angola can more rapidly achieve peace and consolidate and accelerate the economic reform process. It is our sincere hope that the new initiatives of the Security Council, proposed by Ambassador Robert Fowler, Chairman of the Committee on Sanctions, as well as the support already expressed by some Governments and international institutions, may contribute significantly to reinforcing sanctions, dismantling the illegal diamond- trafficking network, which is subsidizing the war carried out by Savimbi, and bringing its perpetrators before the court. In tandem with its efforts to implement peace, the Angolan Government is also committed to implementing social-impact economic programmes and to relaunching 34 the basis for the resettlement of communities with a view to economically rehabilitating the country. In this regard, we wish to call upon all United Nations Member States to support the draft resolution that Angola will submit to the General Assembly on economic rehabilitation. In addition to lending their support to the draft resolution, we call on our partners particularly to participate in the economic rehabilitation of Angola. The disarming of anti-personal landmines is another task that requires the ongoing involvement and support of the international community. The Angolan Government will remain engaged at the national, regional and international levels in order to overcome that scourge. A clear demonstration of this determination is the fact that we were one of the first State parties to the Ottawa Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their Destruction. The security, stability and territorial integrity of Angola and its neighbours depend on the stability of the region. We are currently facing a dangerous increase of destabilization which, if not controlled, may seriously affect the development of that part of the continent. Angola will continue to lend its support, under SADC, to the implementation of peace in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The Ceasefire Agreement signed in Lusaka and its complete fulfilment will pave the way for the return of refugees and the initiation of dialogue between the Congolese political forces, to which falls the responsibility of deciding the destiny of their country. The United Nations and the OAU are also called upon to play a crucial role in the establishment of a lasting peace. It would be reasonable for the invading countries to make a gesture by withdrawing from Congolese territory and ceasing to expand their occupation. In the African Horn, Angola welcomes the acceptance by the Governments of Ethiopia and Eritrea of the Framework Agreement prepared by the OAU with a view to settling the dispute between the two countries. We wish to call upon both countries to demonstrate flexibility in order to ensure that a peace agreement, taking into account the interests of their peoples, can be celebrated. With respect to Somalia, we call upon the international community to support the efforts of the OAU to reconcile the political and military factions and to establish an elected Government so that the country can resume its place in the community of nations. In Western Sahara, the fulfilment of the Ceasefire Agreement enabled the further development of the joint efforts of the United Nations and the OAU leading to the holding of a referendum. Angola expects the process to be transparent and fair and that both parties shall accept the verdict of the Sahraoui people. Concerning East Timor, whose people is connected to Angola by a shared language and a historical past of struggle against Portuguese colonization, we were disturbed by the acts of violence that followed the announcement of the results of the popular consultation. The decision of East Timor’s people in favour of self- determination and independence should be respected. It is now the United Nations responsibility to prepare an enabling environment. In this regard, we strongly support the dispatch of a United Nations international peace force. As to the Middle East, Angola welcomes the celebration of the Sharm el-Sheikh agreements between Israel and the Palestinian Authority that have enabled the peace process to be relaunched. It is our view that the new agreements conform to the aspirations of the respective peoples to living in peace and security. The Government of the Republic of Angola and its people are concerned about the difficult political, economic and social situation of the Cuban people, which has worsened under the ongoing economic embargo imposed on their country. We hope that the matter will be resolved through a constructive bilateral dialogue. The latest international developments and the challenges of the next millennium require that the United Nations and its main bodies, particularly those dealing with peace and security, economic development and the administration of international justice, be adjusted to the new situation. Reform and an increase in the membership of the Security Council will be crucial to making the decision-making process more transparent. In this respect, it is essential that all the regions of the world be represented equally. Angola reaffirms the position of the non-aligned countries on the reform of the Security Council, as well as the common African position adopted by the OAU. Despite the progress achieved in some economies and the disappearance of the signs of a new world depression, the international economic situation continues to be characterized by serious imbalances. The root 35 causes of the difficult situation faced by some developing countries include the unfair system governing international economic, monetary and financial relations; the adoption of protectionist measures; the unilateral nature of world trade; and the worsening of the external debt, which has become a heavy burden for the developing countries. It is necessary to take concrete measures which may lead to structural changes in international economic relations and may contribute to the balance of the world economy. To this end, there should be a serious and transparent will in the North-South dialogue. First of all, permit me to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to your important post as President of the General Assembly. We are convinced that thanks to your wisdom and experience you will successfully guide the deliberations of this important forum. Over the past century mankind has made unprecedented strides in its overall progress. It has demonstrated with unprecedented force the creative genius and potential of the human mind. But at the same time, unfortunately, it has highlighted inherent human failings that are the root causes of tremendous social and political upheavals, the further exacerbation of global problems and the emergence of new challenges. One of the most significant achievements of the twentieth century is the founding of the United Nations, with its indispensable legal framework and mechanisms giving it the tools to organize collective action on the part of States in order to counter current and future threats. Tajikistan would like to see the strengthening of the United Nations and of its Security Council, as the body responsible for the maintenance of international peace and security. It is extremely timely and useful, on the threshold of the twenty-first century, to rethink philosophically the lessons we have learned in order to define the principal parameters of a future world order and to develop a programme of action to put them into practice. We see many valuable and mutually enriching ideas in such initiatives as the convening in the year 2000, at the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly, and the millennium summit; the proposal by Russia to elaborate a concept of peace in the twenty-first century; the idea of Iran of a dialogue between civilizations; and the plans of a number of States regarding a culture of peace and other initiatives. Tajikistan, for its part, intends to continue contributing, insofar as it is able, to this intellectual endeavour aimed at encouraging all States to join their efforts and concentrate on the main areas of international cooperation. Having won their independence eight years ago, the people of Tajikistan have made their choice in favour of democracy. Although our movement towards the reform of the political system and market transformations in the social and political sphere has been seriously tested, despite all odds we have risen to the challenge. Today we can state firmly that we will not veer from the road we have chosen of building a democratic, law-abiding and secular society in Tajikistan. The most recent proof of this are the results of a popular referendum on amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Tajikistan, held on 26 September last, which have demonstrated growing support for efforts of the Government to establish lasting peace and accord in our country and, on that basis, to build up further civil society and to form stable democratic institutions. Many States have needed hundreds of years to reach today’s level of democracy. Tajikistan, like other new or restored democracies, will have to cover that distance within a shorter period of time while gradually tackling difficult and complex tasks in the civil, political, economic, social and cultural areas. It is clear that this will require timely, adequate and coordinated support from the United Nations, and we look forward to such support. I wish to note with great satisfaction that the transitional period provided for in the General Agreement on the Establishment of Peace and National Accord in Tajikistan has entered its final stretch. Thus the way towards further strengthening of the fundamentals of peaceful democratic development has now been opened up. In this context of critical importance, we are looking forward in the next few months to presidential and parliamentary elections in Tajikistan, which we hope will be successful with the necessary assistance from the United Nations and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Now more than ever before, the peace process in Tajikistan needs active support, particularly material and financial assistance from the international community. We hope to see remedied very soon the situation wherein donor States allocated only a small percentage of funds pledged in response to the appeal made this year by the Secretary- General of the United Nations for humanitarian assistance to Tajikistan. We would like also to express the hope that at the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly, as in previous years, full support will be forthcoming for the draft resolution on granting international assistance for post-conflict projects in Tajikistan. The Government of Tajikistan, despite great difficulties, has consistently been implementing a programme of economic reforms in order to create an effective market economy. Step by step, an appropriate legal framework is being set up to provide a favourable environment for the development of small and medium-sized businesses, for foreign investments and for the promotion of market institutions, including in the areas of finance and banking. The efforts of our Government are being supported by the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and a number of other influential and authoritative international financial and economic institutions and agencies. At this new stage of development resulting from the transformation in our economic and political systems, we in Tajikistan are counting on the international community to provide as much support and assistance as it can. The disparity in the value placed on human life and tragedy depending on whether one is in Europe or elsewhere is cause for profound regret. If a hotbed of tension flares up in Europe, it is contained and eliminated on the double. And this is wonderful. However, it is particularly hard for us to bear given the large-scale conflicts that have been spilling blood in Asia for decades. And is Afghanistan really not a European problem — Afghanistan, whose drugs are destroying the lives of hundreds of thousands of unfortunates, including in Europe? Afghanistan is not just Asia’s pain and tragedy. It is Europe’s, too. We are extremely perturbed by the continuing intra- Afghan conflict. The international community must take all necessary steps to restore peace in Afghanistan as quickly as possible. It is unthinkable that the 20-year civil war that has already wreaked such irreparable losses on the long-suffering Afghan people should turn into a new 100-year war and continue into the third millennium. We are deeply convinced that the only way to put an end to the long-drawn-out bloodshed in Afghanistan is through a political settlement to the conflict which would have as its cornerstone the formation of a broad-based Government that reflects and protects the interests of all political, ethnic and religious groups and strata of Afghan society. We are sure that the main thrust in any settlement to the conflict in Afghanistan should be towards strengthening the leading role of the United Nations as the key mediator between the parties in restoring peace and achieving national reconciliation: the efforts of other international organizations, and of States, should complement and reinforce the work of the United Nations; they should not be undertaken in isolation from it, much less run counter to it. In the context of strengthening the central role played by the United Nations in coordinating international efforts with regard to Afghanistan, the “six plus two” group of friends and neighbours must redouble its efforts. We believe that the Security Council should once again very seriously review the situation in and around Afghanistan and that it should take action, including imposing sanctions against those who are violating Security Council and General Assembly resolutions. Engulfed in the flames of conflict, Afghanistan is the source of the many dangers, destabilizing the situation in Tajikistan, the whole of Central Asia and far beyond. In the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States, active bilateral and multilateral cooperation is under way on countering the penetration from Afghanistan, and the proliferation in our region, of militant Taliban ideology, weapons, crime, terrorism and various forms of extremism. I wish in particular to stress the seriousness of the drug problem. Specifically, the protracted war in Afghanistan has turned that country into one of the world’s main drug centres. The Taliban movement has chosen an extremely dangerous course in turning the territory under its control into a gigantic drug production and distribution factory and warehouse. Also, despite appeals from the international community, this factory of death continues to increase its output. In this context, I should like to remind the Assembly of the proposal I put forward at the twentieth special session of the General Assembly in June 1998 (A/5- 20/PV.2) to create a “cordon sanitaire” around Afghanistan that would put a covering force along the drug routes out of that country. This idea was conceived because, given the current social and economic conditions in our country, it is no simple matter for Tajikistan to guard its 1,500-kilometre frontier with Afghanistan reliably. There is also a trend towards using Tajikistan not only as a transit route for drugs but also as a reprocessing station, and even towards expanding the market with Tajik consumers, all part of the plans of international criminal groups to destabilize the situation in our country. Still, the bulk of the drugs finding their way into our territory is still destined for transshipment to other countries, primarily European ones through Russia and the Transcaucasus. In this sense, the Tajik-Afghan border is the first line of defence for many other States, and the joint efforts of Tajik and Russian border guards to plug the leaks in it are serving the interests of a substantial part of the international community. We note with satisfaction that our appeal has not gone unheeded and that over the past year there has been a breakthrough in Tajikistan’s cooperation with the relevant United Nations agencies, in particular the United Nations International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP), whose leadership’s support for the measures taken by the Government of Tajikistan to combat drug trafficking is becoming ever more active. Under the agreements and projects reached and developed between the Government of Tajikistan and UNDCP, a number of specific activities are planned to increase the anti-drug capabilities of law enforcement agencies and the military, in particular those operating in areas adjoining the Tajik-Afghan border. An anti-drug agency reporting directly to the President of the Republic has been established. Cooperation between Tajikistan and UNDCP is a shining example of how efforts can be combined in order to fight shoulder to shoulder against one of the most terrible human evils. We are open to this kind of cooperation with all interested States, international organizations and institutions. The world has recently been witness to brazen acts by international terrorists who are increasingly operating under the banners of political extremism and religious fanaticism. Tajikistan shares the view that the fight against terrorism is one of the most pressing problems facing mankind today. Suffice it to mention the situation in Afghanistan, which confirms that narco-dollars are helping create an environment favourable to terrorism. We condemn terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and deem it necessary to coordinate the actions of the entire world community to eradicate this scourge at the global, regional and national levels. We think it would be useful to convene, under United Nations auspices, a year- 2000 conference to decide on joint organized world action to combat terrorism; this will be discussed at the fifty- fourth session of the General Assembly. 3 Tajikistan has consistently supported United Nations efforts in the sphere of environmental protection. We appreciate the growing United Nations attention to the serious ecological problems facing our country and other States of Central Asia. We hope that the approach of the year 2000, which the United Nations has declared the International Year of Mountains, will help mobilize the international community’s potential to help preserve biodiversity and natural mountain ecological systems. This is of particular importance to Tajikistan as a predominantly mountainous country. We note with satisfaction that the leadership of the Secretariat, in particular Under-Secretary-General Sergio Vieira de Mello, is showing increasing interest in cooperation with our country to ward off the threat of a major natural disaster in the Central Asian region related to the problem of lake Sarez. In this context, we believe it is time to focus world attention on the question of fresh water in all its aspects. Therefore, Tajikistan has proposed that 2003 be declared the International Year of Water. This initiative is prompted by the menacing deterioration of a situation in which millions of people lack access to clean water. It is well known that because of water pollution half of the world’s population lives in unsanitary conditions; more than 5 million people a year die, and more than 3 billion become ill. As the population increases, the likelihood of “water wars” between States for sources of fresh water grows ever greater. Issues of water and other challenges of the new age are thus directly linked to problems of security in the context of interdependence. In addition to its humanitarian aspects, the problem of water has other dimensions, in particular economic and ecological ones. Water is our common heritage, and it is necessary to ensure that all States share in the responsibility to preserve it for the benefit of future generations. Constructive global cooperation could become a worthy political dimension of the twenty-first century, and could guarantee that this will never acquire a military aspect. We hope that the international community will respond favourably to our initiative on the resolution of water problems, which are of crucial importance not only for Tajikistan, which is rich in water resources, but also for the majority of other States Members of the United Nations. It is vital to repair broken links and to create a new model for relations, particularly in the area of transport and communication. Addressing that key task will to a large extent determine the development in the next millennium of all Central Asian States that lack an outlet to the sea; these include Tajikistan. My people has drawn new strength from peace and stability. The construction of a railroad, industrial enterprises and social infrastructure is now under way along the ancient historic Great Silk Road, which runs through the territory of Tajikistan. This year we are completing construction of a transboundary route that will give us access to the sea. That is our contribution to restoring direct communication among individuals and peoples along an ancient route that in the Middle Ages served as a bridge between East and West and that made possible dialogue among civilizations. We expect that in the near future goods will flow along this route in both directions. This will undoubtedly foster better mutual understanding among all peoples of the East and the West, and also will have a positive effect on strengthening regional security and cooperation among neighbouring countries in Central Asia. Experience has shown that turning to one’s own roots is always a powerful means of spiritual therapy, especially for those who have overcome the tragedy of a fratricidal war and are entering a period of active post- conflict reconstruction. Now we are at the stage of renewal and of building a new democratic society, and we look back once more at our long history. At a time when, with active support from the United Nations, the process of national reconciliation is nearing its objective, our country is celebrating the 1,100th anniversary of the founding of the State of the Samanids, which marked the birth of Tajik statehood. We express our appreciation to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization and to all the States and international organizations that responded to our appeal and have supported efforts to undertake international activities devoted to this momentous anniversary. The age of the Samanids was not only a time of an unprecedented flourishing of science, culture and philosophy and of the emergence of Tajik statehood. It was also the time of the birth and blossoming of the mediaeval humanism that so enriched world civilization. Allow me to express the hope that in the third millennium, now so close, the humanistic ideals will illuminate for the world community the arduous road to universal peace, sustainable development and peaceful construction.  Allow me first to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly. Canadians are proud to have accompanied you and your people on their journey to join the community of nations. On behalf of Canada, allow me also to welcome the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga as new Members of the United Nations. Mr. President, your election is a tribute to your wisdom and your dedication to the goals of the United Nations. I am convinced that you will guide us well in carrying out the work that we are gathered here to do on behalf of all of the world's people. Indeed, it is we the people for whom the United Nations was founded and its purposes forged. We the people, not we the nation States, or the ministers, or the ambassadors, or the Secretariat. Let us recall these lines from the United Nations Charter: “We the peoples of the United Nations determined to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, ... to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, ... to establish conditions under which justice ... can be maintained, and to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom, ... have resolved to combine our efforts to accomplish these aims”. These are noble words and compelling goals. But do they still ring true, or is there a need for new meaning and new commitment? How would we the people assess the handiwork of the United Nations to date and judge the world scene today when we have seen in the last year alone the brutal ethnic cleansing of Kosovo, the slaughter and maiming of innocents in Sierra Leone, Angola, both Congos and Sudan and the cruel suppression of the independence agreement in East Timor? Or when we see kidnapping and terrorism plaguing virtually every region, the growing, powerful influence of the drug-traffickers and criminals, the return of the slave merchants and the emergence of modern warlords who brutalize and exploit communities for economic gain? Or when we are all subject to the darker side of globalization, where international commerce brings new but poorly distributed wealth, where helpless children are recruited into armies or sold on the internet for exploitive purposes, where environmental degradation inflicts a high cost on the smallest countries, which can least afford it? Our world on the eve of the millennium is increasingly shaped by these and a variety of other direct threats to people. If we the peoples were to have the chance to rethink the Preamble to the Charter, we might well say that we are determined to save existing generations from the grave new risks to their personal and family security. It is true that there is another perspective, one that gives a glimmer of hope. We could point with some satisfaction to the fact that, through the combined efforts of people working together across borders, there is an emerging sense of accomplishment in responding to these new threats to human security. As of today, 86 nations have ratified the Convention on antipersonnel mines, ushering in a legal regime and a plan of action that will save the lives of thousands. Working together last year, 120 nations voted in favour of an International Criminal Court, which will establish individual accountability for crimes against humanity. In the field of conflict, the United Nations is now attempting to rebuild the broken fields of Kosovo after an unprecedented intervention for humanitarian reasons. And in East Timor, peacekeepers are bringing order to that long-troubled land. So we the peoples have not given up in the face of the confusion, turmoil and misery which beset our world; and we still search through the corridors of this building for words of cooperation and acts of consensus. (spoke in French) But it is not easy, because many forget that it is we the peoples, all the world's people, whom we are here to serve, not just their particular national interests. Too many protect their prerogatives, engage in exclusive power politics or refuse to pay their bills, thereby paralysing the institution and rendering it incapable of meeting the challenges to our collective well-being. 16 It is difficult to promote an agenda for the security of people when some stand opposed, on the basis of a desire to protect at all costs the sovereignty of the State. Of course, State sovereignty remains a fundamental tenet of peace and security; but it is not absolute, and it is not a shield behind which the most egregious violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms can be hidden. It is time, therefore, for we the peoples represented in this Assembly to reassess our influence and make our voices heard. (spoke in English) There is a new road map to lead the way. Last week the Secretary-General tabled a report on the protection of civilians in armed conflict (S/1999/957) in which he captures many of today's challenges and sets out 40 recommendations for action. The heaviest burden falls on the Security Council. The search for global peace increasingly turns on issues of personal safety. Modern conflict takes a huge, disproportionate toll on civilians. In this world, the protection of civilians must be central to the Council's work. It must provide the subtext for our future collective action and the impetus behind our efforts to prevent conflict, keep the peace, enforce sanctions and support the collective will of the United Nations. The way ahead is not without obstacles. There are legitimate questions about the purposes, limits and standards for Council engagement for humanitarian ends, which itself also present difficult contradictions with regard to the principle of non-interference. Clear and consistent criteria are needed against which the necessity or otherwise of humanitarian intervention — including enforcement — can be judged and applied. These tests must be very demanding: the basis must be the existence of fundamental breaches of international humanitarian and human rights law. The human dimension makes it imperative that the Council adapt the blunt instrument of sanctions into a targeted tool so that they hurt where they are supposed to hurt. The Council needs also to show the resolve to implement sanctions once they are in place. This is Canada's objective as chairman of the Council's Angola sanctions Committee established pursuant to resolution 864 (1993) — to develop tougher measures to constrain the trade in arms and diamonds, thereby making it more difficult for UNITA to wage war. It is time to tackle the new war economy in which a direct relationship exists between certain businesses, mercenaries and warlords, a relationship that perpetuates misery, conflict and the victimization of innocent people. A human security agenda highlights the urgent need to face clearly the issue of the Council's representation and its decision-making processes, especially the inappropriate use and persistent threat of the veto where it can compromise, complicate and slow down determined, urgent international action to protect people. The Council needs to come to grips with these challenges if it is to maintain its credibility in the eyes of the people it serves. Membership in the Council is a trust, and Council members need to demonstrate their capacity to maintain that trust. The issues raised by the Secretary-General in his report on the protection of civilians in armed conflict are issues that plague all peoples. The Secretary-General's proposals in fact go beyond the purview of just the Security Council; the onus for taking action lies with all Member States. For that reason, I strongly urge that the General Assembly should begin consideration of this report and move quickly to establish mechanisms to give effect to its recommendations, including a system of reporting to review implementation. Towards this end, Canada looks forward to working with the Secretary- General and fellow Member States to establish a “friends of civilians in armed conflict” group to help guide these efforts. To protect civilians in armed conflict, the Assembly has the means to enable the United Nations to act more quickly; the moral authority to establish universal standards that hold us all accountable; and the legitimacy to direct efforts into new areas of global endeavour. The ability to respond rapidly when the security of civilians is threatened is essential. Giving the United Nations a rapid response capability — particularly through the creation of a United Nations headquarters for rapid deployment — would be an important step. How much more effective could the United Nations have been in East Timor or in Kosovo if such a capability had existed? The civilian side of peace operations — the police and the judges, the civil servants and the human rights experts — is also of growing importance, but insufficient capacity for rapid deployment is a problem here too. Clearly the “White Helmets” are as critical to building peace as the Blue Helmets, and they deserve no less of our attention. Those of us who are able might start by 17 improving our respective national capacity to make contributions to be put at the service of the United Nations. This is something my Government has begun and is working to improve. Globally binding humanitarian and human rights standards for behaviour and practical mechanisms to hold transgressors accountable would also advance the security of people subjected to the horrors of armed conflict. The adoption of the Statute of the International Criminal Court was a qualitative step forward. It will help to end the culture of impunity and protect all people against the most egregious violations of humanitarian law. The Assembly's priority now should be to bring the Court to life. This means continued cooperation from us all in building the technical underpinnings of this Court. It also means ensuring prompt and widespread ratification of the Court's Statute. Strengthened standards and strategies are needed elsewhere. For example, negotiating the strongest possible optional protocol on the involvement of children in armed conflict, which should be accompanied by a comprehensive action plan, will help to confront one of the most heinous aspects of modern warfare and other conflict. We agree with the Secretary-General that more must be done to protect humanitarian workers who risk their lives to help the victims of war. That is why Canada will be seeking an additional protocol to the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel to provide legal protection to all personnel working in situations of armed conflict, including a broader range of non-governmental organizations and locally employed personnel. Finally, the Assembly can direct its efforts towards making the safety of people the emphasis in a wider range of global endeavours. (spoke in French) The greatest threat to human safety remains the possibility of annihilation by nuclear or other weapons of mass destruction. Yet the non-proliferation regime that we have painstakingly built over the past 50 years remains fragile. We should now ensure that the obligations under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons are respected, and we should implement the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and reduce the risk that nuclear weapons pose to our collective security. Human security is also the impetus behind efforts to address the problem of small arms, which kill in conflict zones as well as on neighbourhood streets. This is a global challenge that requires a global solution. We should therefore convene a conference on the illicit traffic in small arms, with a comprehensive agenda. (spoke in English) Transnational crime, including the illicit drug trade, terrorism and human smuggling, is a closely related challenge. It has a direct impact on the safety of all our people. The conclusion of an effective United Nations transnational organized crime convention and its protocols would be a start to providing that protection. Taken together, those efforts would be a strong beginning to orienting the Assembly to meet the real security needs of people today. I must be very blunt: improvement in human security is a necessary condition for success in the other important actions that we take to advance human, economic, aid and trade development. Farmers cannot work fields strewn with mines. Children cannot learn when they are abused and brutalized by war. Investors will not send money to regions racked by conflict. Societies cannot flourish when resources are pillaged to fuel violence and people are victimized by terror. Ultimately, freedom from fear is intimately connected to the freedom from want. And it is freedom from fear for all peoples — which is at the heart of the Secretary-General's report and his recommendations — that provides the United Nations with a clear, defining role at the century's close. Our collective efforts towards that end will give concrete expression to the hopes and dreams of the generation that first made “we the peoples” the basis for this Organization. Next year's Millennium Assembly and summit offer an opportunity to articulate a vision of the United Nations that places the safety of people at the centre of its agenda. The United Nations cannot do it all. The challenges to advancing human safety are complex. Regional organizations play an important role. Practical cooperation between countries can address specific problems and the participation of members of civil society and non- governmental organizations is also imperative. But security for all of us begins and ends with a strong, effective United Nations focused on this goal. We the peoples should resolve to work together to achieve this end.  I would like to extend my warmest congratulations to you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. I have no doubt that your long experience and proven diplomatic skills will guide the work of this session to a successful conclusion. Moreover, we interpret your election as a well-deserved recognition of your country, Namibia, for which the Cypriot people entertain feelings of admiration and friendship. I would also like to take the opportunity to express my appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Opertti of Uruguay, for the determined leadership with which he steered the work of the fifty-third session. Cyprus joins other States in extending a warm welcome to the new Members of the United Nations: the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. As we are rapidly approaching the dawn of the new millennium, we have an obligation to reaffirm our commitment to this truly global Organization and to the ideas that have made the United Nations the hope of mankind for a world governed by peace, justice and the rule of law. And yet, the challenges that we face seem at times insurmountable. Our world is characterized by a large array of old and constantly emerging new problems, such as violent international conflicts and internal strife. Moreover, the United Nations has to respond to many challenges, such as the eradication of poverty, sustainable development, the fight against terrorism and drug trafficking, the control of epidemics and natural disasters, and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The Organization's efforts in these areas have been considerable and must not be underestimated. I take this opportunity to reaffirm my Government's strong commitment to the United Nations and our support for the ongoing efforts to reform it, so that it will be able to successfully meet the considerable challenges that lie ahead. Cyprus will work towards the successful conclusion of the Millennium Assembly. We look forward to an interactive Summit. We anticipate an in-depth and result- oriented discussion, with the participation of civil society, during the work of the many special sessions on various facets of the Organization's work. One of the major issues of concern to all humanity is disarmament. I would like to reaffirm our support for these efforts including, inter alia, a strengthened review process of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and the effective implementation of the Chemical Weapons Convention. In the field of human rights, the United Nations plays a very special role not only in developing and enhancing the regime of human rights instruments, but also in the prevention of possible violations and the constantly expanding humanitarian relief efforts. On the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the Geneva Conventions, we reaffirm our commitment to the cause of human rights and the promotion of humanitarian law. Cyprus fully supported the adoption of the Statute of a permanent International Criminal Court. Cyprus follows the situation in the Middle East with intense interest. We rejoice at the winds of hope that have recently appeared in the efforts to finally achieve peace in that long-tormented area and welcome the recent Israeli- Palestinian agreement. Cyprus, as a neighbouring State with close relations to the parties involved in the Middle East, reiterates its support for a just, lasting and comprehensive settlement based on the relevant United Nations resolutions and the implementation of the peace accords. The recent tragedy that has unfolded in Kosovo has demonstrated the fragility of peace in the heart of Europe and the imperative need to address a new array of problems that have the potential to destabilize an entire region. The international community, as well as the parties involved, have an obligation to create the conditions for reconciliation, so that what has transpired 5 in Kosovo and Yugoslavia in general will never be allowed to take place again. Cyprus fully supports Security Council resolution 1244 (1999) and calls for full respect for the human rights of all Kosovars, irrespective of their origin, as well as for the sovereignty of all States in the region. My Government also welcomes the initiative of the European Union that led to the adoption of the Stability Pact last June as an important initiative that will contribute considerably to the economic and political stabilization of south-eastern Europe and help its peoples construct a new future. Cyprus welcomes the several United Nations initiatives and recommendations stemming from the follow-up to the report of the Secretary-General concerning Africa. The international community should redouble its efforts to assist the countries of Africa to overcome the ethnic strife and wars; to eradicate poverty; successfully to combat disease; to win the fight against drug trafficking; to obtain sustainable development; and to face the challenges of the future. The recent devastating earthquake that struck Turkey has once more demonstrated the frailty of human beings before nature's incredible power of destruction. I take this opportunity to reiterate to the Turkish people our sympathy for the enormous losses suffered and to urge the international community to lend a helping hand for the reconstruction of the devastated areas. Despite the political problems that exist between our respective States, the magnitude of the suffering of the Turkish people has deeply moved the people of Cyprus. I wish to congratulate all those countries which rushed to save Turkish lives, and in particular Greece, which, despite its many differences and problems with Turkey, was one of the first countries to send its teams to work side by side with Turkish teams to rescue the Turkish people who were buried alive under the ruins of the earthquake. I want also to congratulate Turkey for reciprocating in the same manner after the subsequent earthquake in Greece and I wish to salute the new spirit of friendship which has started to emerge between the two countries. This year marks a quarter of a century since the Turkish invasion and unlawful occupation of 37 per cent of the territory of the Republic of Cyprus. I could today, from this podium, point an accusing finger at Turkey and talk at length about the ethnic cleansing it practised against the Greek Cypriots, which resulted in 180,000 Greek Cypriots becoming refugees in their own country. I could bring up the drama of the relatives of the 1,600 Greek Cypriots missing since the invasion of Cyprus by Turkish forces in 1974. I could point out the many violations of human rights of the Greek Cypriots by citing decisions of the European Court and reports of the European Commission of Human Rights, holding Turkey responsible for such violations. Today I will abstain from doing so, because I prefer to look to the future, and not to deal with the past. We are currently waiting for the United Nations Secretary-General to issue invitations to both sides to take part in negotiations, under the auspices of the United Nations, in the most ambitious initiative ever undertaken to find a comprehensive solution to the Cyprus problem. This initiative enjoys the active support of the international community, and particularly the Group of the eight most industrialized countries, the Security Council, the European Union and the Non-Aligned Movement. We are well aware that currently the international community, and especially those States which are in a position to influence the foreign policy of Turkey, are working methodically to persuade Turkey and the Turkish Cypriot leader, Mr. Denktash, to participate in talks without any preconditions; that is, not to insist on the recognition of the so-called Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, and not to demand that negotiations be conducted between the two States, instead of communities, as envisaged in the Security Council resolutions. Regrettably, on 16 September the Prime Minister of Turkey, Mr. Ecevit, in a public statement, not only insisted on the two preconditions I have just mentioned, but added that the economic embargo against the Turkish Cypriots must be lifted. The Prime Minister of Turkey knows that the so-called embargo is a result of a decision of the European Court, to the effect that certificates of origin and/or quality issued by the so-called Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus cannot be accepted by the European Union, because the State referred to is not recognized. The Prime Minister of Turkey should also be aware that there is a category of reciprocal measures that need to be discussed and resolved, and that the question of the embargo falls in that category. I have already stated publicly, but also to the Secretary-General and to the heads of State or Government of the five permanent members of the Security Council, that we are ready to respond positively to the Secretary-General's invitation to attend the talks and to negotiate a solution to the problem within the 6 parameters established by the international community through Security Council resolutions. The parameters so established provide that Cyprus must be a bicommunal, bizonal federal republic, with a single sovereignty, an international personality and a single citizenship, and that the settlement must exclude union, in whole or in part, with any other country or any form of partition or secession. My vision for the solution of the Cyprus problem within those parameters requires a partnership of the two communities that would constitutionally provide for the maximum degree of internal self-administration for the two constituent cantons, provinces or states. Adhering to the principle of the equal political status of the constituent parts, it must provide them with the same rights, powers and functions regarding their respective separate internal self-administration. The constitution must also provide for the effective participation of both communities in the federal Government. Such a federation, becoming a member of the European Union, will thrive at home and abroad, enjoying genuine peace, stability and security, based on international law and legality. It will be supervised by an international force authorized by the Security Council, under terms and conditions so defined as to give the force the right to intervene if it finds that one community, by unlawful acts, puts in danger the safety of the other community or attempts to destroy the independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty of the federal State or destroy the agreements reached. I have stated that both communities must learn from the mistakes of the past and must work hard for the creation of a common and bright future for all, instead of clinging to attitudes which brought about the tragedy in the island. It is, therefore, imperative that we find a just, workable and viable solution which will safeguard the human rights of every citizen and heal the wounds of the past, bringing at the same time a sense of security to both communities by providing full disarmament under international supervision. Our side will approach negotiations on the Cyprus problem with courage and flexibility, partly because we recognize that solving it is in the interest of all Cypriots, but also because that will contribute to the overall stability of the region, which is so much demanded by the international community. I regret that Mr. Denktash is reported to have refused to respond positively to any initiative to negotiate with me as representative of the Greek Cypriot community, on the pretext that I am also the President of the internationally recognized Republic of Cyprus. Time and time again I have explained to him that I sit in the talks not as the President of the Republic of Cyprus, but as the representative of the Greek Cypriot community, because the Security Council resolutions call upon the two communities to negotiate, not upon the State of the Republic of Cyprus and the Turkish Cypriot community. It also saddens me when he attempts to set aside the parameters for the solution of the Cyprus problem, set by the international community and the high-level agreements he made before the Secretary-General of the United Nations twice, for a bicommunal, bizonal federation. He attempts now to set new parameters for the solution, based on two separate sovereign States, and to impose their acceptance by refusing to come to the negotiating table unless his conditions are met. In support of his precondition, he advances the argument that the term ”equal political status”, referred to in United Nations resolutions, must be interpreted to mean that his break-away Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus must be recognized, since the Republic of Cyprus is internationally recognized, in order that the two negotiators may have equal status. He forgets that the Security Council, by its resolution, deplored the action of the Turkish side of declaring a separate State, and asked all its members not to recognize it, a request with which all complied, with the exception of Turkey, the occupying Power. The parameters for the solution of the Cyprus problem are already in place. They are included in the relevant United Nations resolutions. What is required is the political will of the two sides. I can assure the Assembly that the Greek Cypriot side stands ready to negotiate in good faith so that a bicommunal, bizonal Federal Republic of Cyprus will finally become a reality. I join my voice with those of the G-8, the Security Council and the European Union in asking Mr. Denktash to come to the negotiating table without preconditions. I honestly believe that within the parameters of the Security Council resolutions we can find a solution which will safeguard the legitimate interests of both communities and bring peace and stability in the Eastern Mediterranean. 7 I wish also to repeat my invitation to the Turkish Cypriot community to join forces with us in our European Union accession course. That course, which is the greatest achievement since the establishment of the Cyprus Republic, is continuing with success. Accession to the European Union will benefit both communities equally. The Cyprus problem has often been described as complicated and intractable. I do not share this view. The Cyprus problem can and will be solved if the international community demands its solution with the necessary determination, within the parameters it has set. In the effort for the solution of the Cyprus problem, as a small State, Member of the United Nations, we rely on the support of the international community and the United Nations. We look upon its Charter as a beacon of justice, and on the United Nations as the hope for a better future.  I would like first of all to express to you, Sir, our warm congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. We join the earlier delegations in wishing you success in the important task of guiding our debates. I would like to express to your predecessor, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay, Mr. Didier Opertti, our gratitude for his outstanding leadership as President of the Assembly at its fifty-third session. I also wish to convey very special greetings to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and to express our deep appreciation for the work that he has done and our firm support for his efforts to achieve peace in a year that has been of critical importance for the United Nations. Chile extends a hearty welcome to the new Member States of our Organization, Kiribati, Nauru and the 19 Kingdom of Tonga, fraternal countries of the Pacific community. Globalization and interdependence require new and stronger international institutions. As the international environment becomes increasingly complex and difficult, the United Nations, with all its limitations, remains the only global actor capable of addressing not only the problems of cooperation and global conflict, but also issues that, by their very nature, are no longer within the exclusive competence of States. The expansion of the international agenda and the need for collective management of the problems of interdependence are the impetus for this trend. The issue of democracy, or rather of the lack of democracy, has ceased to be exclusively a sovereign matter for countries to deal with; it has become a universal concern that no Government can ignore. Protection of the environment has an indisputable international dimension, inasmuch as issues of vital importance for our future, such as climate change, the pollution and over-exploitation of the oceans, the deterioration of the ozone layer and growing desertification, all require global remedies. Increasingly strict international regimes are being established for the regulation and prohibition of weapons of mass destruction and for the elimination of anti-personnel landmines. The fight against drug-trafficking can be truly effective only if it is waged within a framework of close regional and international cooperation, based on the principle of shared responsibility. Such moving issues as the treatment of refugees, the fight against hunger and major epidemics fall squarely within the scope of multilateral action. The Government of Chile enthusiastically supports this trend towards a new multilateralism. The crisis in Kosovo revealed one of the most serious weaknesses and contradictions of the United Nations. The policies of ethnic cleansing supported by the Serbian leadership in that region required an immediate and vigorous response by the international community. It was truly regrettable that our Organization was prevented from the outset from taking action with the vigour that the situation required. It was also regrettable that the solution to the crisis was found outside the appropriate framework of United Nations mechanisms and in contravention of the principles of the Charter. There is clearly a responsibility shared by all the permanent members of the Security Council for the inadequate functioning of the mechanisms of collective security. Once again, it was evident that the veto or the threat of its use can reduce to impotence the world's principal organ of collective security. Once again, it was evident that, when this occurs, a vacuum is created that can lead to the unilateral use of force without the prior authorization of the Security Council. More recently, the United Nations has had to face a new challenge, a fresh humanitarian tragedy that it had to stop at all costs. I refer to the crisis in East Timor. Chile supported with hope and enthusiasm the holding of the referendum on 30 August, which was made possible by the significant agreement reached between Indonesia and Portugal under United Nations auspices. A Chilean delegation of two distinguished parliamentarians was able to observe the successful organization of the electoral process and the admirable work of the United Nations volunteers and staff. They also witnessed the onset of the incidents that culminated in the massacre of which we are all aware. These acts are totally unacceptable. We are pleased that the Republic of Indonesia has requested the intervention of the United Nations to put an end to violence on the island. We are encouraged by the fact that, after so many unnecessary deaths, it has been possible to organize a multinational force under the efficient leadership of Australia. I wish to reiterate and reaffirm the commitment of Chile to the peacekeeping operations of the United Nations. Without interruption since 1949, my country has lent its cooperation to several of these operations. Today, we are expanding our participation in this field and have decided to contribute to the peacekeeping forces deployed in Kosovo and in East Timor. In February, Chile formally joined the reserve forces system. We have already identified the personnel to be kept at the ready in terms of military units, police monitors and civilian experts. I wish to stress the importance that we attach to the implementation of the Ottawa Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their Destruction, which Chile has signed and for which it is completing the formalities required for its approval by our National Congress. In keeping with the spirit and purpose of that instrument, I reiterate my country's commitment not to produce, export, import or lay any new anti- personnel landmines, as we demonstrated last April in our official declaration of a unilateral moratorium. My country notes with optimism and hope the positive signs that have recently emerged with regard to 20 the long-awaited resumption of the peace process between Israel and the Palestinian people. Chile has resolutely supported this process from the very beginning and noted with great concern its virtual paralysis. We hope that the Israelis and the Palestinians alike will have the courage and resolve to opt unambiguously for dialogue and peace. Chile expresses its concern and frustration at the obstacles that continue to block the self-determination referendum provided for under the United Nations Settlement Plan for Western Sahara. We hope that the date that has been set will be honoured so that the Sahraoui people can have the opportunity to express their preference in a free, informed and transparent manner. Latin America has continued to make significant contributions to international peace and stability throughout the year. A final settlement has been achieved in the border conflict between two fraternal peoples on our continent: Ecuador and Peru. As one of the four guarantor countries of the 1941 treaty by which those two countries are bound, Chile is pleased to have contributed to the rapprochement between the parties and to have facilitated the dialogue that led this year to the settlement of their differences and the signing of a peace agreement. The border between Argentina and Chile is one of the longest in the world. Numerous disagreements have arisen in the past over its demarcation. Thanks to the political will of the two nations, it has been possible to find solutions to each one of these problems. I have the deep satisfaction of announcing to this Assembly that we have reached a settlement with Argentina on the last remaining border dispute between our peoples. Our Parliaments have adopted the Campo de Hielo Sur agreement and we can now concentrate without distraction on the task of developing a relationship of peace, friendship and cooperation and a true strategic alliance between our two countries. Four years have passed since, on the occasion of the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, the Member States undertook to intensify efforts to reform and democratize the Organization's structures in order to equip it to deal with the new and complex challenges that it faces in a constantly changing international environment. We must acknowledge, however, that little progress has been made. It has become a truism to point to the changes that have occurred in the international system set up after the Second World War. Less frequently mentioned is the fact that the institutions have not kept pace with these changes. Chile has stressed the need for due importance to be given to the process of reforming the General Assembly as the prime deliberative and decision-making body of the entire system. It is only here that all Member States are represented on an equal footing. On this occasion, we reaffirm our position that the reform of the Security Council must take into account such criteria and principles as the sovereign equality of States, equitable geographic representation and the need to create conditions for a functioning that would guarantee greater transparency and democracy in the working methods and procedures of that body. The persistence of the veto — which, moreover, can be exercised without any public justification — represents a serious obstacle to the achievement of substantive agreements. It is a fact that most of the obstacles to the admission of new permanent members are directly related to the right of veto that accompanies such membership. Clearly, the loosening of regulations that govern the free circulation across borders of the knowledge, goods and capital that are characteristic elements of globalization has entailed significant benefits for our societies. It is also true, however, that globalization has thrown up new challenges and, in some cases, new risks, particularly those associated with capital movement. The international financial crisis of recent years has demonstrated our ongoing vulnerability to events that we cannot control and for which we are not entirely responsible. Following the near collapse of the international financial system, the demand for structural reform has increased exponentially. Today, while the situation appears more hopeful, nothing has changed in substance. The systemic risks remain. We must relaunch, with fresh impetus and vigour, the necessary reform process to stabilize the international financial system in the future. Capital flows far exceed the value of world trade. It is ironic that, while we have devoted so much effort to establishing new trade regimes throughout the world, so little has been done in the field of international finance. The point is certainly not to impede the international flow of capital, but to establish an appropriate international framework to address the problems to which it may give rise. We cannot continue to be passive spectators as financial crises interrupt world growth and limit the development of our countries. 21 It is also essential that we put all our energies into the new round of multilateral trade negotiations that is just beginning. The multilateral trade system, reflected most accurately in the World Trade Organization, must be strengthened with a view to ensuring sustained and genuinely equitable growth for all countries. It is essential that the new round soon to start in Seattle be balanced so as to reflect the interests of developed and developing countries alike. We also hope that it will be comprehensive in its thematic coverage. We oppose a limited approach in the form of sectoral trade negotiations. In the framework of the agendas of United Nations summits and conferences, the closing decade has witnessed gatherings at the highest level to consider the urgent social problems that beset mankind. From Copenhagen to Rio de Janeiro, Beijing to Cairo, Vienna to New York, the United Nations has accomplished a superlative task in reviewing problems and adopting programmes of action in the most important social spheres. In this connection, we attach the greatest importance to the follow-up and implementation of agreements emanating from the World Summit for Social Development. A special session of the General Assembly, to be held in Geneva next June, should renew the international community's commitment to the process begun in Copenhagen. We welcome the recent Convention of the International Labour Organization (ILO) on the prohibition of the most severe forms of child labour. We are confident that that organization, under the leadership of our fellow Chilean, Mr. Juan Somav'a, will play an increasingly relevant role in the new international social agenda. Violations of the basic rights of individuals can no longer be considered an exclusively domestic problem of a country. Protection of these rights is the inescapable task of the international community. This has been recognized by Chile, which, since regaining democracy in 1990, has firmly and sincerely supported the establishment of effective universal and regional regimes for the protection of human rights. We must bear in mind that the international regime for the protection of human rights is fragmentary and evolving. It consists of a set of standards and institutions that are gradually beginning to be applied with many gaps and imperfections. It should also be noted that this regime is being applied within the context of a certain international reality characterized by important differences in the relative power of countries and by selective and sometimes paternalistic practices. Genocide and massive violations of human rights are destined to fall within the competence of international tribunals. Chile welcomes that tendency, but it also recognizes that we are now in a transitional stage of the process of globalization of justice. In this stage the norms of jurisdictions are not clear and are subject to various interpretations, including some that may be arbitrary and erroneous. Chile regained its democracy almost 10 years ago. My Government represents those who fought for nearly two decades to restore Chile's tradition of freedom. Our economy has experienced remarkable growth during this period. We scrupulously respect human rights. We participate avidly in furthering Latin American integration. We are adhering to the new regimes being established by the international community in very diverse spheres. We have also faced the dilemma of administering justice with respect to violations of human rights that occurred in the past in our country. This choice has led to considerable tension. Many countries that began the process of transition to democracy in more favourable conditions than Chile's preferred to circumvent such tensions by refraining from prosecuting very serious crimes that occurred during the previous regimes. In these circumstances, what grounds would exist for the judiciary of a third State to exercise jurisdiction with respect to acts that are currently the subject of proceedings in the court of the State in which those acts were committed? There is no denial of justice in Chile. We do not accept impunity for human rights violations. The Government has initiated a broad dialogue to deal with the consequences of the most serious human rights violations that occurred in our country, particularly the tragedy of those who were arrested and disappeared. At present nearly 300 cases relating to human rights violations committed during the authoritarian regime that governed our country between 1973 and 1990 are being tried in Chilean courts. In several cases, the Chilean courts have convicted the accused and have sentenced them to prison terms that are now being served in penitentiaries. We would understand if the organized international community attempted to administer justice in countries in which the rule of law did not prevail or where the most basic human rights continued to be trampled. But in a democratic State the task of administering justice must be undertaken by that State and its institutions. 22 The Government of Chile considers it highly undesirable that judges of other countries should claim jurisdiction to intervene directly in that process. This claim to jurisdiction, based on the principle of separation of powers, means plainly and simply ignoring the principle of the juridical equality of States. Interference in matters within our country's jurisdiction is inappropriate and misplaced and is tantamount to a lack of respect for our State of law and our democracy. Today this interference affects Chile and other fraternal countries of the Southern Cone of Latin America. Tomorrow it may extend to the rest of the international community, leading to juridical chaos and competing judicial claims that will end up damaging the international relations of many of our countries. But our reaction to these imperfections and discriminatory practices is not to seek refuge in outdated principles and notions. On the contrary: we must move forward towards a clear, orderly and non-discriminatory regime, such as the one envisaged in the Statute of the International Criminal Court. The establishment of a permanent organ designed to exercise criminal jurisdiction over persons accused of any of the crimes over which it has competence will have the virtue of discouraging both improper internal procedures that guarantee the impunity of the perpetrators and attempts by judges in other countries to make themselves the righteous of the world. I wish to conclude by expressing prudent optimism for the future of our Organization. Many States and other actors, such as non-governmental organizations that make up our increasingly vibrant international civil society, would like to raise the standing of the United Nations. We hope that the Millennium Assembly, to which we have given all our support, will become the symbol of a renewed and much stronger United Nations as it faces the new century.  In this Hall today are representatives of wealthy countries and also representatives of poor countries, who constitute the majority. There are ministers and ambassadors from countries whose per capita gross domestic product is $25,000 dollars, and others who represent countries where that figure is a mere $300 dollars. Moreover, that difference grows year by year. There are representatives of countries that appear to have a promising future. These are the countries with only 20 per cent of the world's population, but 86 per cent of its gross domestic product, 82 per cent of world export markets, 68 per cent of direct foreign investment, and 74 per cent of all of the telephone lines on the planet. What can we say about the future of those whom we represent here who account for 80 per cent of the world's population, living in countries that were colonized and plundered for centuries to increase the wealth of the former metropolises? It is true that time has passed, and that our history is what it is and not what we might have wished it to be. But must we simply resign ourselves to a future that is essentially the same? Can we feel reassured knowing that the wealth of the three richest people in the world is greater than the combined gross domestic product of the 48 least developed countries, with their population of 600 million, whose representatives are present in this hall today demanding justice? In this hall today we have representatives of countries where most of the population — which is hardly growing at all — are guaranteed decent living standards and where some live in opulence. These populations spend $12 billion on perfume and $17 billion on pet food every year. But there is a majority represented in this hall that has no reason to feel optimistic. This majority comprises 900 million people who go hungry and 1.3 billion who live in poverty. My brothers and sisters here today representing Africa have no reason to feel reassured. They know that today there are 23 million people on their continent who are HIV-positive. They also know that it costs $12,000 to treat just one person infected with the virus, which means that it would take almost $300 billion a year for all the AIDS patients in Africa to receive the same treatment currently provided to AIDS sufferers in wealthy countries. Could my colleagues representing 6 billion of the planet's inhabitants — to which a further 80 million are added every year, almost all of them in the Third World — really think that a situation like this could continue unchanged into the next century? How can any of us prevent the continued growth in the number of emigrants from poor nations who flock to the wealthy countries in pursuit of a dream, while the current world order does not allow them to find the conditions for a decent life in their own countries? A small number of representatives in this hall represent countries that have no need to fear a military threat in the coming century. Some even have nuclear weapons, belong to a powerful alliance or build up their armies every year with better, more sophisticated weapons. They are the ones who view the rest of the world as merely the Euro-Atlantic periphery of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, and therefore they will never have to endure the devastation of massive bombings by invisible attackers acting under what has come to be known as a new strategic concept of that aggressive military organization. But the vast majority of those of us gathered here today do not enjoy such security. We are troubled to see that in a world dominated by a single military and technological Power, we are today less safe than during the difficult years of the cold war. If one day we wished to call upon the Security Council to discuss a situation that we viewed as a threat to one of our poor countries, does the Assembly think that we would be heard? I fear that recent examples have proved otherwise. Why is there no discussion in the Assembly about general and complete disarmament, including nuclear disarmament? Why is the issue limited to controlling small arms, which are necessary in a case such as that of Cuba — a country attacked and under blockade for 40 years? Why is there no mention of the deadly laser- guided bombs, the depleted uranium missiles, or the cluster or graphite bombs used indiscriminately by the United States in bombing the civilian populations in Kosovo? Could anyone claim that our children will inherit a just and secure world if we do not change the unfair and unequal standards that are currently used to measure issues of such key importance to our collective security? 14 Must we also accept the imposition of free market rules and the sacred law of supply and demand in the brutal commerce of death? What is stopping the international community from attempting, in a rational and coordinated manner, to redirect a large part of the $780 billion currently used for military expenditures to promoting development in the Third World countries? That is why we so passionately defend respect for the principles of international law, which have guided relations among all of the world's countries for more than half a century. What would we have left to defend ourselves in the future if we poor countries were no longer able to rely on such principles as respect for sovereignty and self- determination, the sovereign equality of all States and non- interference in the internal affairs of other nations? How could we call on the international community to protest a threat against one of our countries if those principles, which are today systematically and flagrantly violated, were to be struck from the Charter of the United Nations? In a unipolar world, attempts to impose notions such as the limitation of sovereignty, and humanitarian intervention, do not advance international security: they pose a threat to the countries of the Third World, which have neither powerful armies nor nuclear weapons. Such attempts must therefore be brought to an end: they violate the letter and the spirit of the Charter. At the same time, we believe it is necessary to defend the United Nations, now more than ever. We defend the need for its existence as much as we do the need to democratize it. The challenge facing us is that of reforming the United Nations so that it serves the interests of all nations equally. We defend both the need for the existence of the Security Council and the need to make it more inclusive, democratic and transparent. Why not expand the number of permanent members? Why could not the Council include at least two or three new permanent members from Latin America, Africa and Asia? The membership now is three times the number of countries which founded the United Nations in San Francisco in 1945, and the vast majority of them — the Third World countries — do not have a single permanent member to represent them. However, we do not defend the right of veto. We do not believe that anyone should have it. But if it is not possible to eliminate it, we should at least attempt to ensure that this prerogative is more evenly shared, and provide that all new permanent members have the right of veto. Why, if the right of veto cannot be eliminated now, is it not restricted to votes on proposed measures under Chapter VII of the Charter? As things stand at present, a single country can override the will of all the other United Nations Members. And there is one country that has exercised its unlimited right to veto an infinite number of times: the United States. This is untenable. At the United Nations, we must curb the attempt to impose a single way of thinking on us by trying to make us believe that it is our way, or that it is superior to our rich diversity of cultures and models, or that it is more advanced and modern than our multiplicity of identities. To survive, we must resist being treated as merely the Euro-Atlantic periphery and oppose having labelled as global threats the problems that we face as consequences of colonialism: underdevelopment; the consumerism of the wealthy countries; and even the results of their recent or current policies. Here in this Hall are the representatives of the Group of 7, whose countries have 685 million inhabitants and economies with a combined gross domestic product of $20 trillion. Also present are the rest of us, who represent the remaining 181 countries, with more than 5 billion inhabitants and economies with a combined gross domestic product of barely $10 trillion. Yes, we are all equal under the Charter of the United Nations, but not in real life. While rich countries have the transnational corporations that control over one third of all of the world's exports, we poor countries have the asphyxiating burden of external debt, which has risen to the level of $2 trillion and continues to grow, devouring almost 25 per cent of our export earnings just to service our debt. How can development be possible under these conditions? While we speak insistently in this Hall of the need for a new international financial architecture, our countries are being buffeted by the scourge of a system that allows the daily occurrence of speculative transactions worth $3 trillion. That structure cannot be fixed; it is not a matter of remodelling it, but rather of demolishing it and rebuilding it anew. Can anyone explain the logic of this phantom economy that produces nothing and is sustained by buying and selling things that do not exist? Should we or should we not demolish this chaotic financial system and build upon its ruins a system that favours production, takes differences into account and stops forcing our battered economies to endlessly pursue the impossible illusion of increasing financial reserves? Sooner or later, those reserves evaporate in the course of the desperate 15 and unfair battle to defend our currencies from the strong and highly favoured currency of the anachronistic Bretton Woods accord, the sacrosanct dollar. When the history of these years is written, it will be very difficult to explain how a single country was able to accumulate so many privileges and such absolute power. What will the economists of the next century say when they realize that the United States was able to live with a current account deficit that is already about $300 billion without the International Monetary Fund (IMF) having imposed even one of the severe adjustment programmes that are impoverishing the countries of the third world? Who will explain the fact that, thanks to the privilege of having the world's reserve currency, the Americans, save less and spend more than anyone else in the world? Will anyone tell them that in 1998 they were able to import $124 billion worth of cars and spend $8 billion in cosmetics, thanks in good measure to the fact that they controlled 17.8 per cent of the votes of the International Monetary Fund, which gives them a virtual right of veto? How can we explain to the people of Tanzania, for example, that while all of this was happening they had to spend nine times as much on servicing the foreign debt than on primary health care, and four times as much as on primary education? The current international economic system is not only profoundly unjust, but also absolutely unsustainable. An economic system that destroys the environment cannot be sustained. The world's supply of drinking water today is 60 per cent of what it was in 1970; and today there are 2.3 billion more human beings on the planet than there were back then. The same is happening with our forests. Could anyone in this Hall defend the proposition that such a pace of destruction can go on indefinitely? An economic system based on the irrational consumption patterns of the rich countries, which are later exported to our own countries through the mass media, cannot be sustained. Why not accept that it is possible to provide a decent life to all the people of the planet with the resources that are within our reach and the degree of technological development we have achieved, through a rational and solidarity-based exploitation of all this potential? How will they explain that the member countries of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, whose representatives I now address with all due respect, have fallen so far behind as to provide less than one third of their 1970 commitment to dedicate a minimum of 0.7 per cent of their gross national product to official development assistance? I asked a member of our delegation, a Deputy in our National Assembly and a professed Christian, what the Bible would say about such an unjust economic order. He responded quickly with the words of a Prophet from the Holy Book: “Woe unto them that decree unrighteous decrees, and that write grievousness which they have prescribed; To turn aside the needy from judgment, and to take away the right from the poor of my people, that widows may be their prey, and that they may rob the fatherless! And what will ye do in the day of visitation, and in the desolation which shall come from afar? to whom will ye flee for help? and where will ye leave your glory?” (The Holy Bible, Isaiah 10: 1-3) I know that many people in this Hall share these concerns, and I also know that almost all of us are asking ourselves the same question. Can the World Trade Organization (WTO) be spared from becoming a fiefdom of the United States and its allies, as the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank are today? Will we truly succeed in making the World Trade Organization the democratic and transparent forum we need, or will the powerful interests of a minority be imposed to the detriment of the silent majority, which is too divided, confused and unsuspecting to understand the dangers of a cold and dogmatic liberalization of world trade? Will they remember that the vast majority of third world countries, dependent on the export of a single agricultural product or a few spices, will be wiped out of world trade and crushed by the fierce competition of a few transnational corporations? Should we or should we not take these realities into account and accept the need to protect the interests of the underdeveloped countries, if only to guarantee their very survival? How will we poor countries be able to compete if our professionals leave for the wealthy nations in pursuit of better opportunities; if we are not even allowed to keep our athletes and we must watch with sorrow as they compete under another country's flag? How will we poor nations be able to compete economically if the 10 most 16 developed countries control 95 per cent of the patents issued in the last 20 years, and intellectual property, far from being liberalized, is ever more closely protected? Talking to us poor countries about trade through the Internet is almost a joke, when we know that 91 per cent of Internet users live in the member countries of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Will we ever see a change in the current situation, in which there are over 600 telephone lines for every 1,000 people in the United States, Sweden and Switzerland, yet only 1 telephone per 1,000 people in Cambodia, Chad and Afghanistan? As part of this tragic depiction of the situation facing the vast majority of countries in the world, I feel bound to talk about my own country. The situation in Cuba is an eloquent example, if ever there was one, of what should not be done in terms of relations between powerful and small nations. For more than 40 years, my people have been subjected to a brutal policy of hostility and all kinds of aggression imposed by the United States. High-level authorities in that country have openly admitted that this policy is aimed at destroying the political and economic system built by the Cuban people of their own free will and at restoring the neo-colonial power that the United States held over Cuba and definitively lost on 1 January 1959, with the triumph of the Cuban revolution. As has been made clear by events, public statements by American spokespersons and by declassified secret United States documents, this policy of aggression has been carried out through means that have ranged from political and diplomatic measures, propaganda campaigns, espionage and subversion, and fostering defection and illegal emigration, to acts of terrorism, sabotage and biological warfare. This policy has also included the organization and support of armed groups; air and naval raids against our territory; the hatching of over 600 plots to assassinate the leader of our revolution; a military invasion by a mercenary army; the most serious threat ever of a global nuclear conflict, in October 1962; and finally, a brutal commercial and financial blockade and a ferocious economic war against my country that have now lasted 40 years. Let me set aside the economic aspects of this aggression against Cuba and deal solely with the physical aggression and acts of war carried out by the United States Government. Recently Cuban social organizations, on behalf of the entire population of Cuba, filed a civil lawsuit against the United States Administration claiming reparation and compensation for loss and damages resulting from the deaths of 3,478 Cuban citizens and for a further 2,099 survivors who have been left disabled as a consequence of the covert plots and the “dirty war” waged by the United States. The suit demands that the United States Government, which is responsible for these human losses and injuries, be sentenced to pay a total of $181.1 billion in reparation as a minimum symbolic compensation for the loss of something that is clearly irreplaceable and priceless: the lives and physical well- being of the more than 5,500 Cuban citizens who have been victims of the United States' obsessive policy against Cuba. At the open and public trial, televised nationwide, at which this claim was considered, it was clearly proved that the United States Government was directly responsible for this continued aggression, and that the undeclared war against Cuba had constituted an official State policy enforced by no fewer than nine successive United States Administrations over the last 40 years. What will they tell their grandchildren, these leaders, officials and agents of the United States Government whose consciences are weighed down by the guilt of planning and carrying out this “dirty war” against Cuba and by the moral burden of responsibility for the death of thousands of Cubans? Can we possibly allow an international system to continue into the next century that accords total impunity for monstrous actions such as these, which have been systematically and flagrantly perpetrated by a major Power? The ferocious economic blockade that extends to every facet of our country's foreign trade and financial relations merits particular attention. This blockade, which has lasted over 40 years, began to develop before the triumph of the revolution. A secret United States document, declassified in 1991, reveals that on 23 December 1958, at a National Security Council meeting attended by President Dwight Eisenhower at which the situation in Cuba was discussed, the then-Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), Allen Dulles, categorically stated: “We must prevent a Castro victory”. Three days later, on 26 December, President Eisenhower instructed the CIA that he did not wish the specifics of covert operations against Cuba to be 17 presented to the National Security Council. Everything had to be kept strictly secret. The sudden and overwhelming triumph of the revolutionary forces six days later did not give them time to prevent a Castro victory. The first United States assault on the national economy took place on 1 January 1959, when those who had looted the public treasury fled for the United States, together with the perpetrators of the worst massacres and abuses against the Cuban people. Five weeks after the triumph of the revolution, economist Felipe Pazos, a professional man — well known and respected in United States Government circles — who had been appointed by the revolutionary Government to take over the management of the Cuban National Bank, announced on 6 February that the former regime had embezzled or seized $424 million from the gold and dollar reserves that backed the Cuban peso. The New York Times subsequently corroborated the report's claim concerning the theft of the funds, which constituted the country's only reserves. The spoils of this colossal theft ended up in United States banks. Not a dime was returned to Cuba. The National Bank immediately requested a modest quantity of funds to deal with this highly critical situation. That request was turned down. The Agrarian Reform Act, enacted on 17 May 1959, was aimed at providing food for the vast majority of our undernourished people and direct or indirect employment for the large percentage of the population that was then unemployed. It was enacted when the word socialism had not yet been spoken in Cuba; however, it provoked an extreme reaction in the United States, whose companies owned much of the best and most fertile land in Cuba. Cuba's willingness, stipulated in the Act itself, to provide the owners with deferred compensation paid out in reasonable and workable instalments was met with an immediate demand from the United States Government for prompt, effective and full cash compensation. There was nothing in the public coffers with which to meet this demand. A month later, on 24 June, at a meeting called by the State Department to consider options for action against Cuba, the view was put forth that the United States should take a very strong stance forthwith against the Act and its implementation, and that the best way to achieve the necessary results was through economic pressure. The elimination of the Cuban sugar cane quota from the United States market was proposed. According to a declassified document, this would cause the sugar industry to suffer an abrupt and immediate decline, causing widespread higher unemployment; the large numbers of people thereby forced out of work would begin to go hungry. At that same meeting, Secretary of State Herter explicitly described these proposals as measures of economic warfare. In a memorandum dated 6 April 1960, Mr. L. D. Mallory, a senior State Department official, stated that: “The only foreseeable means of alienating internal support is through disenchantment and disaffection based on economic dissatisfaction and hardship ... every possible means should be undertaken promptly to weaken the economic life of Cuba”. He suggested taking: “... a line of action which ... makes the greatest inroads in denying money and supplies to Cuba, to decrease monetary and real wages, to bring about hunger, desperation and the overthrow of the Government.” On 6 July of that same year, the United States adopted one of the measures proposed: the elimination of the Cuban sugar quota. Never again would the United States buy a single pound of sugar from Cuba. A market that was established over the course of more than 100 years between the United States and Cuba, with Cuba guaranteeing the supply of this essential food product to the United States and its allies during the first half of the century, including during the two World Wars from which the United States emerged as the wealthiest, most powerful nation in the world, was wiped out in a second, dealing a cruel blow to the country's major source of employment and wealth and depriving it of essential funds for the food, medicine, fuel and raw materials needed to ensure the material survival of our people. From that time on, successive economic measures against the Cuban people continued to accumulate until they formed a absolute and total blockade, which went so far as to prevent Cuba from importing even an aspirin produced in the United States, or from exporting to that country a single flower grown in Cuba. This complete blockade, cynically referred to in official terminology with the euphemistic and apparently innocuous word “embargo”, has continued to intensify 18 over the past 40 years. At the most critical and difficult time in our history, when the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the socialist bloc collapsed, and with them the basic markets and sources of supply that the country could count on to withstand the ferocious economic warfare waged against an island only 90 miles from the United States coast, they decided to be yet more unyielding in their approach to Cuba: with truly vulgar and repugnant opportunism, the blockade was intensified to the maximum. The so-called Torricelli Act of 1992, among other restrictive measures that greatly affected the maritime transport of food and other commodities between Cuba and the rest of the world, prohibited United States subsidiaries based in third countries from trading with Cuba. This put an end to commercial operations that amounted to over $700 million in imports of foodstuffs and medicines from those countries. This genocidal policy reached even more infamous heights with the Helms-Burton Act, which codified all previous administrative restrictions, expanded and tightened the blockade and established it in perpetuity. Subsequent to the passage of that law, and with the aim of tightening even further the blockade against the Cuban people, numerous amendments, introduced into bills of such urgency and length that many United States lawmakers did not even have time to read them, were adopted by show of hands in the United States Congress. The Cuban-American terrorist mafia, which is closely linked to the extreme right wing, has achieved its goal of changing the blockade from an order from the executive into rigorous and inflexible legislation. The genocide thereby became institutionalized. Following a 1997 study of the consequences of the blockade for health, the American Association for World Health concluded that it violates the most basic international agreements and conventions governing human rights standards, including the United Nations Charter, the Charter of the Organization of American States and the Geneva Convention Relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in time of War. The Geneva Conventions, to which some 165 countries, including the United States, are parties, require the free passage of all medical supplies and foodstuffs intended for civilian use in time of war. The United States and Cuba are not at war. Indeed, their Governments have even maintain diplomatic representation in Havana and Washington. However, the American Association for World Health has determined that the embargo's restrictions are a deliberate blockade of the Cuban population's access to food and medicine in peacetime. In the same report, the American Association for World Health expresses its belief that the United States embargo against Cuba has dramatically harmed the health and nutrition of a large number of ordinary Cuban citizens and concludes that the embargo has significantly increased suffering in Cuba, to the point of causing death. For seven consecutive years, the Assembly has consistently adopted a resolution on the need to end the economic blockade imposed by the Government of the United States of America on the Cuban people. The condemnation of that genocidal policy has visibly grown from year to year: year on year between 1992 and 1998, the Cuban resolution against the blockade received 59, 88, 101, 117, 137, 143 and 157 votes in favour, while the United States obtained only 3, 4, 2, 3, 3, 3 and 2 votes, including its own. Given the absolute contempt demonstrated by the United States with regard to these General Assembly resolutions, the people of Cuba have decided, independently of the battle taking place in this Assembly, to resort to the legal procedures to which they are entitled in order to demand the appropriate sanctions against those responsible for such acts of genocide. Cuba's initiative is based on a solid and irrefutable legal foundation. The Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide was adopted by the Assembly on 9 December 1948 and signed by the Government of the United States of America on 11 December 1948 and by the Republic of Cuba on 28 December 1949. It entered into force on 12 January 1951 and has been signed and ratified by 124 States. Article II of that Convention reads: “In the present Convention, genocide means any of the following acts committed with intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group”. In subparagraph (c), it immediately goes on to include, among these acts, “Deliberately inflicting on the group conditions of life calculated to bring about its physical destruction in whole or in part”. Article III stipulates that the following acts, among others, shall be punishable: “(a) Genocide; ... (d) Attempt to commit genocide; (e) Complicity in genocide”. It explicitly states in article IV that 19 “Persons committing genocide or any of the other acts enumerated in article III shall be punished, whether they are constitutionally responsible rulers, public officials or private individuals”. The Geneva Convention Relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War was signed on 12 August 1949, and was ratified by the Governments of the United States and Cuba; it entered into force on 21 October 1950. A total of 188 States are currently parties to the Convention. Article 23 decrees that “Each High Contracting Party shall allow the free passage of all consignments of medical and hospital stores and objects necessary for religious worship intended only for civilians of another High Contracting Party, even if the latter is its adversary. It shall likewise permit the free passage of all consignments of essential foodstuffs, clothing and tonics intended for children under fifteen, expectant mothers and maternity cases”. The first Protocol Additional to that Convention specifically, precisely and categorically stipulates, in its article 54, entitled “Protection of objects indispensable to the survival of the civilian population”, that “1. Starvation of civilians as a method of warfare is prohibited. “2. It is prohibited to attack, destroy, remove or render useless objects indispensable to the survival of the civilian population, such as foodstuffs, agricultural areas for the production of foodstuffs, crops, livestock, drinking water installations and supplies and irrigation works, for the specific purpose of denying them for their sustenance value to the civilian population or to the adverse Party, whatever the motive, whether in order to starve out civilians, to cause them to move away, or for any other motive”. Article VII of the 1948 Convention on genocide states, without room for the slightest doubt, that “Persons charged with genocide or any of the other acts enumerated in article III shall be tried by a competent tribunal of the State in the territory of which the act was committed”. Subparagraph (e) of article III of that Convention stipulates with the same precision that accomplices to genocide shall also be punished. As a consequence, the National Assembly of People's Power of the Republic of Cuba declared on 13 September 1999: first, that the economic blockade imposed on Cuba by the Government of the United States constitutes an international crime of genocide in accordance with the definition stipulated in the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, adopted by the General Assembly on 9 December 1948; second, that, on the basis of the arguments put forward and of the foregoing statement, it proclaims Cuba's right to demand that such acts be punished; third, that as a result of the grave, systematic and ongoing genocide carried out over the course of 40 years against the people of Cuba, and in accordance with international standards, principles, agreements and laws, Cuban courts have the right to try and punish the guilty parties, whether they be present or absent; fourth, that acts of genocide and other war crimes are not subject to any statute of limitations; fifth, that the guilty parties can be punished even with a sentence of life imprisonment; sixth, that criminal responsibility does not exempt the aggressor State from providing material compensation for the human and economic damage it may have caused; and seventh, that it calls on the international community for support in this struggle to defend the most elementary principles of justice, the right to life, peace and the freedom of all peoples. Here in this Hall today, as members of the Cuban delegation to the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session, there are three young Cubans representing our country's university students, secondary-school students, and children and adolescents. They are here on behalf of the social organizations that went before the relevant courts to file the claim against the United States Government, demanding reparations and compensation for the damages and injuries suffered by thousands of people. Those same organizations also took the legal initiative of proposing to the National Assembly of People's Power the proclamation I have just cited. Here with us as well are three outstanding personalities in Cuban medicine, Deputies in the National Assembly, who have testified before that body on the tragic harm that has resulted from the blockade on medicines imposed against our country. There are also three Christian deputies, whose profound ethical, religious and human convictions led them to support the proclamation made in our National Assembly demanding the trial and punishment of the guilty parties. 20 These individuals are prepared to respond, here in the United States, to any questions posed to them, or to meet with the press, academic institutions, non-governmental organizations, legislators, senators or even any committee of the United States Congress. We are prepared not only to make accusations, but also to engage in debate and prove the facts that support them.  On behalf of the delegation of Jamaica I extend to you, Sir, our congratulations on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. You and your country, Namibia, are graduates of the United Nations, steeped in its principles, faithful to its causes and committed to its goals. We have full confidence that your leadership will continue to guide us this session in the adoption of constructive decisions which will serve to strengthen the role of the Organization in world affairs. We express our appreciation to the outgoing President, Mr. Didier Opertti, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Uruguay, for his outstanding work in conducting the business of our last session. We congratulate the Secretary-General for his report (A/54/1) outlining the activities of the Organization over the past year and containing his vision for its future work. Jamaica welcomes the three States that this year have joined the membership of the United Nations: the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. Their presence will enrich our deliberations as they bring their particular experiences and perspectives to influence the direction and work of the Organization. Their admission coincides with the holding of the special session of the General Assembly on small island developing States which over the last two days addressed the particular vulnerabilities of these States, which merit special attention within the international community. The three nations we welcome today are also linked to Jamaica through the Commonwealth of Nations. This year the Commonwealth celebrates its fiftieth anniversary, and we salute its achievements in cooperation — especially in promoting the development objectives of its membership — including the recent initiatives to address the special problems of smaller States. The widening of the gap between rich and poor and the increasing marginalization of a large number of developing countries within the world economic framework are urgent matters demanding the attention of the international community. The reasons for these trends are well-known: superior endowments of natural resources; early advantages in modernizing production processes; high levels of capital accumulation and technological development — all have helped consolidate the dominance of the developed countries in world production and trade. Countries which started later in the day will not find it easy to close the gap. And it is not true that the developing countries have only themselves to blame. Most of us have implemented programmes of structural adjustment and stabilization policies, but we have found that the current orthodoxy of free markets and a development model based on liberalization, deregulation and privatization is not providing the promised benefits in trade and investment flows. There is evident need to review the prescriptions and to promote a development policy which takes into greater account the specific socio-economic context of developing countries and to devise more equitable arrangements in international economic relations. In an interdependent world, the human dimension of the development equation, especially the growing incidence of poverty and all its manifestations, must continue to be a matter of concern to the entire global community. It is therefore essential that we seek to establish a better framework for development cooperation and to implement an agenda for development as a matter of priority within the United Nations system. Currently, what we are seeing is a withering of interest and diminished commitment on the issue of cooperation for development and a hardening of attitudes in an atmosphere which preaches competitiveness and the survival of the fittest. It is clear to us that special arrangements are needed, not only in relation to special categories of countries, but also in relation to commodities, where serious problems would result from the rigorous application of the dogma of free trade. Regrettably, even where such special arrangements exist they are under threat. The challenge to the banana regime established within the framework of the Lomé Convention and the ruling of the World Trade Organization (WTO) panel, which has now led to negotiations for an amended regime, sends a message which is particularly discouraging and signals the indifference of some countries to the plight of others. The end result is not yet determined, but at this time the economies of some Caribbean States face a danger not just to their prospects for economic stability and growth, but to their very survival. Many appeals have been made which have gone unheeded. More than anything else, the banana controversy has signified the extent to which the interests of small producers are at the mercy of those in a position of dominance in the world economy and world trade. Another discouraging trend is the diminished significance and reduced contributions of donor countries in the area of development cooperation. At a time of the increasing incidence of poverty and a looming threat of marginalization, levels of official development assistance have been steadily decreasing at both the bilateral and the multilateral levels. In the case of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), technical assistance has been shrinking, especially over the last five years. In 1994, contributions to UNDP were in the region of $1.1 billion. This has steadily declined to the current level for this year of $718 million. We have been supporting initiatives for reform in order to promote better coordination and greater efficiency and cost-effectiveness in the delivery of technical assistance in the operational activities of the United Nations. What we have seen, however, is that the reform process seems more directed at generating cost savings and achieving a pooling of resources without increasing the quantum of funding available for development cooperation under the auspices of the United Nations. The process under way is one of contraction of United Nations-related development activities at the country level and a withering-away of the role of the United Nations in an area of critical importance for developing countries. The reduced impact of the United Nations at the country level is already significant and comes at a time when the needs are greater than ever. We call for a new commitment to development cooperation, a new global partnership between the developed and the developing countries and a new dialogue to review the policies and principles directing international economic relations, and for a new dispensation with regard to policy prescriptions affecting the development process. Without this, developing countries will be engulfed in the perils of globalization with consequences not just for economic welfare, but for the viability of political structures and social stability. There are also other, more insidious dimensions of globalization, especially those which impinge on the security of States, which we must consider. Within the growing internationalization of markets facilitated by improved technology and policies of liberalization, the spectre of transnational crime has grown to significant proportions, especially in the illicit trade in narcotics and small arms. Together, these instruments of death and destruction represent a significant danger to the internal security of many countries, fostering criminal activities which serve to destabilize and corrupt the social order, to undermine democratic institutions and to increase lawlessness. 2 We believe that this growing trade in weapons, which promotes organized crime, terrorist activities and drug trafficking, requires the urgent attention of the international community. Jamaica therefore welcomes the arrangements for the holding of the first international conference on small arms, which is to take place in the year 2000. We look forward to this as a good opportunity to develop a programme for implementation by Member States to control the scale and distribution of these weapons. On reviewing the broader issue of international security, we have to note developments which give rise to concern and anxiety about the future of the world order and the role of the United Nations. The Organization should become engaged wherever international peace is threatened and where conflicts break out. Although the danger of global conflict arising from ideological confrontation has now, in large measure, receded, the world is still full of threats to peace. Wars continue to be waged at the regional level, primarily as a result of regional rivalries and unresolved territorial disputes. At the national level, ethnic strife and political divisiveness have continued to fuel internal conflict, leading to heavy loss of life and economic disruption and affecting regional stability from the spill-over of refugees to neighbouring States. We endorse the Secretary-General's strategy of quiet diplomacy and urge him to use his influence wherever possible to forestall the outbreak of conflict and to promote peace and reconciliation between disputing parties. In accordance with the principles of national sovereignty, he will need the cooperation and support of Member States in his efforts for the maintenance of peace, as delicate problems can arise in relation to any process of diplomatic intervention with respect to the role to be undertaken by the United Nations and appropriate regional organizations. During the past year, events in the Balkans have raised profound questions about the principle of intervention, the use of force, the scale of military enforcement and the role of the Security Council. The debate on these questions has revealed differing perspectives, elements of consensus and varying positions on the applicable principles of international law. In recent times, we have witnessed atrocities committed as a result of the practice of ethnic cleansing as communities rise up against each other to settle old grievances. We all must continue to condemn these practices and understand the need for some kind of action to halt such excesses which violate international humanitarian norms. However, the principles of international law affecting the sovereignty of States and the use of force should not be brushed aside. We believe in the adoption of an approach which has the confidence of the international community whereby diplomatic and any necessary enforcement action is taken or authorized by the multilateral institutions entrusted with safeguarding international peace and security. The Security Council has the primary responsibility. It should not be ignored and disregarded in favour of unilateral action on the part of any State or group of States. While the situation in the Balkans has dominated international attention over the past year, more attention should be given to the situation in Africa, where even more serious problems have arisen involving ethnic strife and political turmoil, affecting neighbouring States and creating humanitarian emergencies. As the Secretary-General has observed in his report, too little attention has been given to the conflicts arising in Africa despite the enormous toll in loss of life and in disruption and suffering resulting from armed insurgencies and inter-State conflict. However, we are encouraged by the process taking place in the West African region affecting Liberia and Sierra Leone. We must pay tribute to the work of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), which has shouldered the burden of peace- building in these two States so battered by civil conflict. We also note with appreciation the efforts of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) in regard to the situation in the Great Lakes region and hope that the Lusaka Agreement will form the basis for reconciliation and peace. The situation in Angola remains a tragic one for the country, and the international community should remain united in support of measures taken against the UNITA insurgency and to bring an end to the nightmare which has for so long impeded the progress of that country. We are distressed by the continuing problems in the Horn of Africa. We continue to support regional efforts towards peacemaking between Ethiopia and Eritrea and welcome the OAU framework agreement which has been worked out to assist the parties to reach a settlement. We urge the Secretary-General to continue to maintain close contact with the parties in all the areas of tension, with the aim of promoting peace and stability, and to foster a spirit of reconciliation so that African States may be able to concentrate their efforts in confronting the critical challenges of economic and social development. 3 In the Middle East, while the situation still remains troublesome, there are some signs of renewed hope with the revival of the peace process and the emergence of a more positive climate for making progress towards a settlement. We welcome the signing of the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum earlier this month and urge the parties to move towards accommodation, to seek to realize the legitimate rights of all parties as the basis for a just and durable peace. The challenge is formidable and the solution will require statesmanship and courage. In South-East Asia the outbreak of violence in East Timor is a matter which has caused deep concern. As there is an obvious need for ensuring the safety of the inhabitants of the territory, we fully support the deployment of the international force which is now in the territory to maintain order. It is necessary now to contemplate the next step, which will be to devise arrangements for the political future of the territory. In our area of Latin America and the Caribbean there remain a number of unresolved territorial disputes but our expectation is that States in our region will use available mechanisms to resolve such disputes by peaceful means. In the Caribbean our efforts are directed towards developing greater integration both within the Caribbean Community and within the wider ambit of the Association of Caribbean States, ACS. This is part of our regional effort towards establishing a regime of peace and cooperation in the Caribbean Sea. In this regard, I should express our ongoing concern over the remaining remnants of cold war politics in our region. The continuation of the embargo against Cuba is a source of tension and carries the risk of conflict, which is particularly troubling for neighbouring States. In the spirit of the friendly relations we enjoy with Cuba and the United States, we call for dialogue, the normalization of relations and an end to policies of confrontation and exclusion. Small countries have an important interest in ensuring that peace and stability is a permanent feature of the world order. In the absence of military power we depend on diplomacy and on the United Nations and its machinery and international adherence to its principles to safeguard and protect those who are militarily weak. It is in our interest to seek to strengthen and uphold all the multilateral institutions dedicated to this effort. The Security Council, which has such an important role in this structure, should be given the fullest support in meeting its responsibilities. This is best achieved through the democratic participation of the United Nations membership in the work of the Council, which serves to strengthen its effectiveness and to give it greater credibility within the international system. Jamaica supports that process and aspires for membership of the Council for a two-year period beginning next year. We do so out of a motivation to make our contribution as a small State in the management of international peace and security. We are driven by a strong commitment to multilateralism and to upholding the principles of the Charter and by a determination to exercise a careful and balanced judgement in relation to all issues affecting peace and security which may come before us. It will be our goal to assist the Security Council to work effectively and to act decisively. We will seek to involve the broader membership in its consultations and to influence the discharge of the Council's responsibilities with fairness and with full respect for the legitimate interests of all parties, within the broader interest of international peace and security. The work of the United Nations in the area of humanitarian relief has always been an important part of its operations, and this is the area in which its work has had the most direct impact and practical meaning at the level of the people. This is particularly so in the delivery of emergency relief in natural disasters. The increase in the scale and intensity of earthquakes, hurricanes, floods and famine in recent times has increased the demands on the system, and there is an obvious need to maintain capability and readiness in the relevant agencies. At the same time, we should support the various initiatives for disaster prevention, including the enforcement of stricter building codes, improved drainage systems, the exchange of scientific knowledge, increased monitoring and the use of early-warning systems to protect ourselves and mitigate the damage. Much more can be done to avert disasters in those areas where members have greater control and power. Man-made disasters create a tragic problem of refugees, which otherwise is often the result of war, persecution or political turmoil. The tragic plight of refugees uprooted from their homes and forced to flee is a sad and disturbing picture, and even more so for the neighbouring States, which are often poor countries that do not have the means to handle heavy inflows. As we have seen from the Secretary-General's report, one of the distressing practices in recent conflicts has been the deliberate targeting of civilians and humanitarian workers. This unacceptable flouting of humanitarian norms is a matter of serious concern for us and indicates the need for further elaboration of principles of international humanitarian law applicable in time of war. 4 Our review of the state of the world in the economic, political and humanitarian dimensions suggests the need for greater effort in building political commitment and investing resources for achieving common goals. Too many of the old problems remain unresolved, and our unity of purpose is too often compromised by political differences and considerations of narrow economic interests. At a time of increasing globalization, the reality of interdependence should be leading us in the other direction — towards mutual respect, tolerance, understanding and partnership in a world of diversity, for these are the true foundations of multilateralism. As we close this century and approach the new millennium, we should do so in the hope of reaching greater achievements by acting in concert to uphold our ideals of humanity and to fight the common enemies of mankind: war, poverty, human suffering and injustice. This should be our firm resolve. Let me begin, Sir, by congratulating you on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly, and to voice my full confidence that the work of this session, under your leadership, will be crowned with success. I wish also to express my great appreciation of the way in which your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, guided the work of the fifty-third session. I take this opportunity also to welcome the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga to the great United Nations family, and to convey to them our best wishes for the future. I am pleased to say that this year has been marked by genuinely positive developments for Albania in the political, social and economic spheres. Albania has made progress in strengthening its democratic institutions and its civil society, in achieving respect for human rights and freedoms, and in enhancing public order and the rule of law. As a new democracy, Albania is tireless in its efforts to strengthen and consolidate its institutional structures. There has been tangible progress in bringing about the independence of the legislative, executive and judicial branches. At the same time, efforts to coordinate them are moving forward without in any way affecting their separate identities. The Albanian State and Government have given priority to economic development by promoting free initiative in the privatization process, principally in strategically important sectors. We have also made a continuous effort to formulate and implement modern legislation that can encourage and support domestic investment and can channel foreign investment into especially profitable vital sectors of our economy. We have every reason to appreciate the beneficial cooperation between Albania and the World Bank, which has resulted in the implementation of projects of great importance to the Albanian economy, and also in their effective management. We are grateful too for the support of the International Monetary Fund, whose activities have made a great contribution to revitalizing my country's finances. We are well aware that no State can have a healthy economy or a solid democracy without secure public order, the rule of law and a strong civil society. Among the thorniest problems now facing Albanian society and especially the Albanian State are neutralizing both common and organized crime and putting an end to corruption in certain sectors. Great efforts and substantial resources have been deployed in this area to increase the effectiveness of the police and other administrative structures engaged in crime-fighting. I take this opportunity to express my great appreciation for the assistance provided by the Multinational Advisory Police Element of the Western European Union and by a number of individual States, in particular for the restructuring and training of the Albanian police and for the provision of logistical equipment. At the same time, I would like to say that the Government of Albania, and I myself, attach great importance to the direct commitment of the United Nations to the process of disarming the civilian population. I would like to take this occasion to congratulate Mr. Dhanapala on his last visit to Albania. Considering corruption to be an extreme evil and a serious obstacle to the development of a healthy democracy, the Albanian Parliament and Government have adopted tough legislative and administrative measures to deal with it, establishing specific structures to better uncover and punish abuse of power in certain corrupt sectors of the administration and the judiciary. During previous sessions, Albania has stated — and we still hold — that the main objective of our strategy is integration into the Euro-Atlantic structures and into other global and regional organizations. Our clear objective is to join the European Union, which we do not doubt for a moment can be achieved, so the Albanian Government considers as a fundamental priority raising the level of its relations with the European Union. I am glad to say that there has been a qualitative improvement in those relations. Cooperation has been intensified in various fields, which bodes well for the signing of an association agreement fairly soon. There have also been positive developments in our rapprochement with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), following the modernization of the Albanian army, and above all thanks to the unreserved help provided to the NATO forces during the Kosovo conflict. I am also happy to note that my country's efforts over many years to become a member of the World Trade Organization seem to be about to be crowned with success. The work of the current session is taking place while Kosovo and the entire region are making efforts to heal the wounds inflicted by the Milosevic regime. The concerns expressed by the Albanian delegation at the fifty-third session with regard to the policy of “ethnic cleansing”, which went as far as genocide, perpetrated by the Belgrade regime against the Albanian population of Kosovo, proved well-founded. In the framework of this chauvinistic policy, the most barbarous crimes were committed: tens of thousands of Albanians were massacred, thousands of houses were destroyed or set on fire, and more than half the population were expelled from their land and had to go to neighbouring countries, particularly Albania, Macedonia and Montenegro. Thousands of other people went into the mountains and lived in unimaginable conditions in order to escape certain death. The massacres at Raçak, Peja, Rahovec and Malishevo, the daily discovery of mass graves containing children, women, young people and old men and women, killed by the Serb army, militias and policemen, will continue to testify to a genocide without precedent on the threshold of the new millennium. It is with horror that I condemn the execution of dozens of eminent Kosovar intellectuals and the imprisonment of hundreds of others. The Milosevic regime ignored the warnings of the international community and its call for an acceptable resolution of the Kosovo crisis. It arrogantly rejected the proposals formulated in the Rambouillet agreement by the Contact Group and increased the repression of the Albanians in Kosovo, thus endangering peace and security in the Balkans. In these circumstances, the NATO countries, legitimately defending the sacred principles of the United Nations Charter, had to intervene militarily in order to force Belgrade to withdraw its armed forces from Kosovo. We congratulate the international community on having shown on this occasion unlike the similar situation in Bosnia, a firm will to condemn the crimes perpetuated against a defenceless population, take effective measures to put an end to those crimes and establish peace in the troubled region of the Balkans. The whole Albanian nation has expressed its profound gratitude to NATO, the United States of America, the United Nations, the Organization for 2 Security and Cooperation in Europe, and all the international forces which contributed to ending the humanitarian disaster in Kosovo and re-establishing peace there. In particular, I pay tribute to the action and the personal commitment of Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary- General of the United Nations, in the settlement of this conflict and the ending of the humanitarian crisis. I also pay special tribute to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia for its commitment to public exposure of the crimes against the Albanian people of Kosovo and for becoming an interpreter for the whole Albanian nation in their just request that all those responsible for crimes against the innocent population be put in the dock. I call on all countries, especially those in our region, to cooperate with the Tribunal, as recommended in Security Council resolutions. The Albanian State has done everything to ensure that the conflict in Kosovo is resolved as soon as possible and peace is re-established in the Balkans. Engaging in intense political activity, we have striven to ensure that the political forces in Kosovo adopt a common attitude and accept the Rambouillet peace plan. The Albanian State, while committing itself firmly to defending its territorial integrity and sovereignty, has refused to respond to provocations by Serb forces at the border. Albania has not fallen for Milosevic's manoeuvres designed to extend the conflict in the region. Despite our great economic and financial difficulties, Albania has borne the burden of the humanitarian crisis of the refugees from Kosovo. Half a million Kosovars deported from their homes have found shelter among their brothers in Albania. Albanian families opened their doors to their blood brothers, thereby earning widespread respect for their generosity. As I recall this period, I would like to express our deep gratitude for he invaluable assistance given us by States and international organizations, both governmental and non-governmental, especially those working within the United Nations framework. The United Nations, implementing Security Council resolution 1244 (1999), is today, in the aftermath of the Kosovo crisis, playing a decisive role. The new civil administration, composed of representatives of the entire population of Kosovo, is almost in place, with the help in particular of the United Nations, the European Union and the OSCE; it is working feverishly in the edification, democratization and strengthening of a multi-ethnic civil society, with respect for human rights and a framework of institutions imbued by that respect. KFOR is carrying out the difficult task of preserving stability and the fragile peace in the Kosovo region. I take this opportunity to thank the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Mr. Bernard Kouchner, for his efforts to attain the established objectives. I am confident that the United Nations and the organizations supporting it will continue their action so as to eliminate all negative factors that might compromise a secure and complete peace and the future of the Kosovo region. We support the efforts of all the international and Kosovar political forces to ensure peaceful coexistence between Albanians and the ethnic minorities in Kosovo. We express our wish and conviction that these efforts, based on Security Council resolution 1244 (1999), will be crowned with success. The end of the conflict in the Kosovo region and the concern of the international community to transform the Balkans from the powder keg it has been into a region of peace and stability have given the countries in our region a historic opportunity to achieve development, prosperity and democratization. We have resolved not to miss that opportunity. First and foremost, our societies must abandon their archaic chauvinistic mindset, which has been the sources of division and hatred and which should no longer outweigh the desire for unity, friendship and cooperation among peoples. We must struggle towards and succeed in quarantining all policies that encourage hatred and ethnic divisions, because such anachronistic policies have been the source of human catastrophes and remain one of the main causes of the destabilization of our region and the delay in our economic development. Our countries share common interests in the strategic, economic and security spheres. In this regard, we want to become integrated into powerful structures such as the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). But it would not be realistic to think we will easily attain this objective. We fully realize that we are at the initial stage of this process. Thus we believe that all the countries of the region should coordinate their efforts in order to become — all together, not separately — integrated into those structures. The Stability Pact on South-Eastern Europe is the fundamental document for the consolidation of democratic values, for economic growth and for the strengthening of security in our region. I take this opportunity to salute the full support provided to this initiative by the countries of our region at the Cologne and Sarajevo meetings. The State and the Government of Albania support all efforts 3 that have been undertaken within the political boundaries of the former Yugoslavia to promote democracy and the process of integration in the region. We welcome all democratic developments in Serbia, the consequence of which should be to remove from power the political group responsible for the crimes committed in the former Yugoslavia and to eliminate the chauvinistic mindset that encourages war. Such a mindset is no longer acceptable in civilized Europe. The Albanian Government is adopting measures with a view to attaining the objectives of the Stability Pact. The immediate objectives include various ideas and concrete proposals aimed at the development of economic relations with the countries in the region, the creation of inter-Balkan institutions to monitor respect for human rights and the strengthening of security measures. The Albanian State expects that in the near future the Balkans will become a democratic region with an economy intended to reach the level of those of the developed countries, a region that respects human rights, in accordance with advanced European and global standards. We believe that because of the damage suffered during the conflicts in the former Yugoslavia, and particularly in Kosovo, Albania deserves preferential treatment within the framework of the Stability Pact. As far as we are concerned, the free circulation of people, ideas, capital and goods — a Balkan mini- Schengen — is the precondition for a rapid development of the economy, social life and democracy of our region. A democratic Balkans is unimaginable if our countries build walls in order to prevent the free circulation of people. Reciprocal free movement would contribute greatly to bringing people together and to cultural exchanges and, thereby, to the elimination of the hatred and inter-ethnic conflicts that up till now have so cruelly shaken this part of Europe. Albania appreciates the role currently being played by the European Union, the United States of America and other countries in the framework of these positive developments. It hopes that this interest in the development and democratization of the region will persist with the same level of commitment and the same intensity. While attaching priority to the problems of our region, the State and the Government of Albania have been and continue to remain attentive to developments in other parts of the world. We welcome the progress in the peace process in the Middle East and Northern Ireland. For my part, I would like to express the fervent hope that these processes prove irreversible. We appreciate the role played by the United Nations in organizing the referendum on the future of East Timor. We hope the most recent agreements and resolutions, with the international presence, in particular that of the United Nations, will lead to the stabilization of the situation in that country as soon as possible. Given the ever-growing importance of multilateral international cooperation, Albania intends to become an ever more active Member of the United Nations and of other international organizations, in order to be able to better contribute to safeguarding peace throughout the world. Albania salutes the efforts of the United Nations to continue to strengthen its role in resolving the acute problems facing humanity today in the political, economic and humanitarian spheres. I take this opportunity to express my great appreciation for the action of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, aimed at reforming and reviving the Organization. In connection with this reform, Albania is in favour of the democratization and strengthening of the Security Council so that it better reflects new international realities and has more transparent procedures and working methods and a simplified decision-making process. We support the financial and budgetary reform of the United Nations, the objective of which is better management of financial resources and, thus, the increased effectiveness of United Nations programmes and projects. Allow me to express once again to you, Mr. President, and to all the delegations present here my fervent wish that this session of the Assembly will meet with success in advancing global peace, stability and prosperity.  I should like first of all to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly and to thank you for having accepted the weighty task that you will be carrying out during this session. We also wish to express our best wishes to your country, Namibia, which you so ably represent. We also pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Opertti, for the manner in which he guided our work during the previous session. I should also like to take this opportunity to extend my sincere congratulations to the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga on their admission to our Organization. My statement is in line with the statement made here by the Presidency of the European Union. I wish merely to highlight some of the issues that are particularly important for us. Early in the month of August, two young African children, Yaguine and Fodé, were found dead, stowed away in the landing gear of a Sabena aeroplane, victims of an idealism and an innocence that led them to embark on a reckless voyage in search of the mirages of western society. Yaguine and Fodé left us a moving message, of which I would like to quote some passages here: “To the people in charge in Europe: it is to your solidarity and to your kindness that we make an appeal for help for Africa ... We are suffering enormously ... We have war, disease ... We have schools, but in order to get a good education and good teaching, one needs large amounts of money; and our parents are poor. “So, we Africans, especially African children and young people, ask you to create a great and effective organization for Africa ... We need you to fight poverty”. The great organization of which Yaguine and Fodé dreamed is here before me in its most universal form. It was conceived from the outset for the maintenance of peace and for economic and social development. The authors of the Charter regarded those two aspects as inseparable. Over the last decade, this great Organization has succeeded in laying a worldwide foundation for economic and social values aimed at creating a more civilized world, a world in which globalization has gradually come to the fore. Here I am thinking of the discrete but tenacious work at the great United Nations conferences and summits to find new directions for development. That significant work must be continued and consolidated. The 15 universal commitments made at Jomtien for education, at Rio de Janeiro for the environment, at Vienna for human rights, at Copenhagen for social development, at Cairo for population and development, at Beijing for women, at Rome for hunger and at Istanbul for human settlements constitute irreversible gains for mankind. It is gratifying that the concerns debated and the conclusions adopted at those conferences have increasingly become the inspiration for our national policies and are helping to bring about the indispensable convergence among those policies. But the tragedy of Yaguine and Fodé brings us face to face with the harsh reality of unbalanced development. As I speak, 1.3 billion women and men are surviving — or trying to survive — on less than one dollar per day; 840 million of them, including 160 million children, suffer daily from hunger or malnutrition. Even more serious, as those two teenagers remind us, 260 million children have no access to primary or secondary school because of a lack of means. Every day, 250 million children go to work instead of to school. At the dawn of the third millennium, it is increasingly difficult for our civilization to tolerate such social and human marginalization and such a lack of solidarity, in particular for our children. We must forge stronger solidarity within the United Nations. We must restore humanism to its rightful place in international relations. For this fight against poverty and this campaign for emancipation to succeed, we must agree to a decisive review of the mechanism that underlies the economic fluctuation, that causes financial tension and its attendant social consequences, and that tolerates massive exploitation of the weakest by forces that are often impersonal and unidentifiable. Hence, we are deeply convinced that we must restore the primacy of political leadership in our globalized society. We must endeavour without hidden agendas to organize a new world political order. We need stronger and more coherent United Nations action for economic and social development, which requires the use of all available global tools for economic, financial and commercial governance. This means we must be more determined to restoring the primacy of policy and no longer to permit democratic legitimacy to be circumvented or even flouted by selfish or speculative interests. The rights of peoples must always prevail over the power of money. Belgium will support United Nations efforts to restore the Organization's mission to protect against the unacceptable side-effects of globalization. In that spirit, my country attaches great importance to the success of the coming Millennium Assembly. In that context, Belgium is pleased that it will serve as host to the Third United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries in the spring of 2001, which will bring together in Brussels all development partners. We hope that this major event will lead to a renewed commitment to the integration of these countries in the world economy on the basis of concrete and quantifiable objectives. The Belgian Government, which recently came into office, has clearly expressed its political will gradually to increase our funding of bilateral partnerships and cooperation. We shall pay particular attention to the quality and the coherent implementation of the projects we sponsor. I express the wish that this Assembly session be conducted under the banner of Africa. Your stimulating opening statement, Mr. President, and the addresses by President Mbeki of South Africa and by President Bouteflika of Algeria, sent a strong message in that regard. We Belgians have a traditional interest in the political, economic and development prospects of Central Africa. Belgium must reestablish the bonds with that region which history and experience have bestowed upon it. This also implies responsibilities which my Government will endeavour to shoulder in a responsible and coherent manner. I am thinking in particular of the twofold task of the United Nations as an organization both for the maintenance of peace and for the promotion of development. I also have in mind human rights issues, of which my Government is particularly aware. Against this backdrop, the new Belgian Government has placed cooperation with Central Africa at the top of its agenda. To us, it is important that peace and stability should return to Central Africa. The Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement offers hope. It requires the political will of the various parties concerned to address the root causes of the present conflict and to seek solutions at a regional level. A significant effort by the international community will be necessary to encourage and support them. My country will do its share, and will intensify its direct contacts and its financial support. Belgium has responded to the appeal of the Security Council by placing liaison officers at the disposal of the Secretary-General. They will be deployed in accordance with Security Council resolution 1258 (1999) of 6 August 1999. It goes without saying that we fully respect the wish of African leaders that they should find their own political solutions to the conflicts that undermine the continent. But this can imply no ambiguity about the roles of the Security Council and of the General Assembly. Nor does 16 it mean that the rest of the world should refrain from action: achieving peace in the Great Lakes region will require tremendous efforts and resources. Here we must think about concluding a true partnership pact with the countries of Central Africa. Inspired by the Stability Pact for the Balkans, this would form part of a genuine strategy for cooperation among countries. With the support of the major financial institutions, such a pact could revitalize the economic mechanisms of partner countries and reinvigorate their social and democratic development. We believe such s partnership pact should be based on the voluntary and mutually respectful cooperation of each African and non- African signatory country and should in no way be construed as an attempt at neo-colonial domineering of that part of the world. Other regions of Africa deserve more attention and effort on the part of the international community. I think in particular of the bloody conflict which has plunged Angola into unspeakable humanitarian tragedy. I also think of the war between Ethiopia and Eritrea, which must be prevented from extending into Somalia. In Sierra Leone, the efforts of neighbouring countries, which Belgium and other partners have supported, give reason for optimism. We also hope that Guinea-Bissau will regain civil peace. But much remains to be done to improve the situation of the peoples of southern Sudan and of Somalia. Whatever the media's focus, now turned towards other parts of the world, it is important that we do not forget the suffering of men, women and especially children of those countries of Africa, who aspire to education, health and development. The new international policies, based more on balance and on the sharing of prosperity, should be directed towards them, too. I turn briefly to North Africa. The presidency of the European Union recalled that the Maghreb countries are experiencing significant growth. They remain an essential partner for Europe and for world peace, prosperity and development. Economic, social, cultural and political ties with the southern Mediterranean basin will have to be strengthened in the coming months and years. I also hope that the international Community will fulfil its commitment to support the Middle East peace process. There, too, it will be a matter of releasing the financial and human resources to ensure the economic, social and democratic development of the various regions and peoples who are committed to peace. My country is ready to respond to calls for cooperation in this regard. There is another region where the United Nations has been called upon to play a crucial and difficult role. The Kosovo crisis has implications for the security of my country and Europe as a whole. It also obliges us to ask a sensitive question about the limits to the right of the international community to intervene in the internal affairs of a State. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) intervention has appreciably reinforced the idea that moral and ethical considerations are in the process of overshadowing the traditional concept of national sovereignty in international relations. If there is one lesson for our Organization to learn from the twentieth century, it is that for no State can the massacre of its own people be considered an “internal affair”, under any pretext. This legal formalism would ultimately amount to admitting that, as the head of the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK), Bernard Kouchner has said, it would be “legitimate, although not elegant, to massacre one's own people”. Yet the Security Council is well-equipped to deal with massive violations of human rights. Article 42 of the United Nations Charter allows the Council to qualify such violations as a threat to international peace and security and to authorize armed intervention, as it has on several occasions — for example, in Iraqi Kurdistan in 1991; in Somalia in 1992; in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1994; and in Liberia and Sierra Leone in 1997. If the Security Council could not fully play its role at the beginning of the Kosovo crisis, this was due less to a divergence of views between States over the essence of the problem than because there was a rift between the advocates of the right of humanitarian intervention and the defenders of the traditional legal system, which regards national sovereignty as the absolute foundation of international relations. My country deeply regrets that a potential double veto constituted an insurmountable obstacle that was inappropriate given the extreme urgency of the situation. We hope that resorting to force without the Council's approval will not constitute a precedent. The world needs an international legal order that prevails over the law of the jungle. In this respect, we all hope that resolution 1244 (1999) signals a return to international legality. 17 Belgium welcomes the decisive attitude of the Security Council regarding East Timor. We hope for a speedy restoration of normality there, with the return of its inhabitants, reconstruction of the country and the establishment of a state of law resulting from the expressed will of its people. Here it is opportune to recall the urgent need for the international community to provide itself with the tools needed to prevent and punish barbaric acts. We need a tribunal charged with prosecuting those responsible for the gravest crimes affecting the whole international community. The adoption in Rome of the Statute of the International Criminal Court is an important landmark. I appeal to all States to sign and ratify it so that the Court can start to operate as soon as possible. Belgium's ratification of the Statute is imminent. This new tribunal must be endowed with the human and material means necessary for the accomplishment of its mission. This leads me to the issue of United Nations reform, and primarily the reform of the Security Council. For six years a Working Group under the guidance of the President of the General Assembly has attempted, with more or less success, to ascertain which reforms would make it possible to re-gild the coat of arms of the Security Council. In spite of the efforts of successive Presidents, little progress has been made. Nevertheless, the scope of the issue and possible improvements have been identified. I believe that new momentum can come only from a new determination on the part of our Governments. In the view of my country, the Security Council is an anachronistic reflection of the world of 1946. In 53 years the number of independent countries has grown fourfold, and new great Powers can, whether on economic, demographic or geopolitical grounds, legitimately claim a larger share of international responsibility. The reasons for reform are evident. Lack of it, continuance of the status quo and opposition to change involve the following dangers. Countries which are legitimate candidates for a permanent seat on the Security Council, frustrated in their ambitions, will be less inclined to contribute to the collective effort to maintain peace, prevent conflict and give multilateral development aid. Equally, other countries, unable to justifiably claim a permanent seat, will be deprived of participation in shouldering global responsibilities, because of their number and the lack of objective rotation criteria. That will bring about a loss of representativeness and legitimacy, and ultimately of the Council's authority. My country chairs a group of 10 Member States seeking a solution that can command the broadest possible support. In spite of the obstacles, we intend to persevere. The reforms that we are considering are not limited to the Security Council; they also aim at rendering the machinery of the United Nations more effective and efficient. I pay tribute to Secretary-General Kofi Annan, who has thrown himself into the task with great determination. The United Nations continues to be an indispensable Organization. It must be strengthened so that it can carry out the tasks and responsibilities given it by the Charter. Reform is therefore essential to strengthen the mechanisms for the solidarity and harmonious development to which we all aspire. This reform must be accompanied by a sound financial outlook. There has been no improvement over the last 12 months; this situation must be redressed. Belgium, like the many other States which pay their contributions on time and unconditionally, calls for all Member States to do the same. It will be understood, of course, that here I am looking particularly towards Washington. Belgium, a friend and ally of the United States, reaffirms that it is essential that that country play its role in the United Nations. We all need the United States, but it must shoulder its responsibilities, including its financial responsibilities, within our Organization. So far I have mostly spoken of what is not working. But there are many areas where progress, even considerable progress, is being made. The Organization has played a considerable role in giving an ethical dimension to the criteria governing international relations. My country welcomes this. As the first victim of chemical weapons — gas used on the battlefields of the Yser — Belgium was a passionate advocate of the process that led to the conclusion and the implementation of the Chemical Weapons Convention. Similarly, we are supporting the efforts to combat biological and bacteriological weapons and the fight to abolish anti- personnel mines. We are also presently engaged in efforts to reduce the spread of small arms. 18 The anarchistic accumulation of small arms and the scourge of anti-personnel mines remain among the most acute problems at this close of the century. These weapons exacerbate conflicts and are instruments of death and terror, in Africa as well as in Asia, Latin America and the Balkans. Nor do the societies of Western Europe and North America escape this cancer, the full extent of which has yet to be felt. Several initiatives have been taken to tackle these problems, and my country was fully involved in them. By way of example I would like to mention the Brussels conference of October 1998 and the Code of Conduct and the common action of the European Union, as well as our participation in and financial support for the expert groups set up by the Secretary-General. We will continue our policy of prevention and reduction with regard to accumulations of small arms, as well as our fight for the abolition of anti-personnel mines. In general, in the appropriate forums we will continue to take initiatives to promote arms control and disarmament. I am thinking, for example, of the reinforcement of the Biological Weapons Convention, limitations on arms- trafficking, the intensification of the fight against the violation of embargoes on weapons transfers and the fight against the increase of nuclear arsenals. From economic and social development to disarmament or humanitarian intervention, there is a central theme that underlies all our actions: human rights. It has become clearer and clearer in the past few years that human rights are intertwined with the promotion of international peace and security, economic prosperity, sustainable development and social justice. In all the reforms of the activities and the structures of the United Nations that have been carried out with the impetus of the Secretary-General, the promotion of human rights is a cross-cutting theme involving all the organizations and agencies that operate on a global scale. Belgium supports this global and integrated approach without reservations; but the task is immense. Thus, it is in the interest of the United Nations to ensure the collaboration of regional organizations, whose competencies and potential in this field can help in the achievement of these common objectives. The inaugural address of the new Belgian Government unequivocally put human rights at the top of its agenda and announced its intention of pursuing an active policy within all the relevant international organizations. I would like to pay particular homage to our Secretary-General, whose patience and tact have often made the difference in extremely difficult circumstances. My Government remains a steadfast supporter of all his initiatives to prepare our Organization for the challenges, known and unknown, that lie ahead in the next century. Through the Secretary-General I would like to pay special tribute to the United Nations personnel, and particularly to all those who died on the field of honour in humanitarian or peacekeeping missions. Every year the list of victims gets longer. My country appeals to the global conscience to respect United Nations personnel and to ensure that crimes against them do not go unpunished. In conclusion, I sincerely hope that the actions of the Secretary-General will make our Organization more credible and more effective, for the United Nations remains the indispensable universal instrument to achieve our common goals. It is a beacon in an increasingly interdependent world, a source of hope for the Yaguines and Fodés of all the continents.  I wish most heartily to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to lead this body at this most significant time, as we stand at the threshold of the new millennium. I am persuaded that your antecedents, both in your own country and here at the United Nations, have eminently prepared you for the role that you have been elected to fill. I, for my part, pledge the total support and assistance of my delegation for the accomplishment of your great task. I would also like to pay tribute to the work of your predecessor, the Foreign Minister of Uruguay, a representative of the Group of Latin America and Caribbean States, who steered the General Assembly through the difficult period of the fifty-third session. Once again, I would like to express my unreserved esteem for the Secretary-General, whose charm, affability and intellect have been of great benefit to the United Nations system. It is clear to all that Mr. Kofi Annan is making a unique contribution to the development of this, our Organization. My country, Saint Kitts and Nevis, its Government, its people and myself heartily commend the Secretary-General. May I take this opportunity to say a word of welcome and congratulations to the three new Member States admitted at the opening of this fifty-fourth session: the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. As representative of a small island State from the Caribbean, I am happy to welcome them as small island States from the Pacific region. I recognize that even though they have only now attained full membership in the United Nations they are well seized of their obligations and they will play their full part in upholding the principles of the Charter. Once again I congratulate them and wish them well for the future. 23 When this Organization was formed, some 54 years ago, it ushered in bright hopes and held out bright promise. It was an Organization dedicated to the ending of war and the enhancement of peace. Nations were to have beaten their swords into ploughshares and their spears into pruning hooks. I wish that, as we come to the end of the twentieth century and embark upon the twenty-first, we really could have celebrated this bright new world. But even now, during the closing months of the closing year of the millennium, mankind has been afflicted by violence and brutality, and man's inhumanity to man has been expressed in some of the most outrageous fashions. The recent development in Kosovo, the terribly disturbing stories of the human tragedy that befell its people, the injustices that were highlighted during that conflict — all this constitutes a severe limitation in the work of the United Nations. My Government takes the view that genocidal activity, from whichever sources it emanates, is unacceptable and a violation of international law. The United Nations must therefore be vigilant as it continues its pacification efforts. Now that the job of rebuilding is under way, let us look forward — look forward with hope to an era of peace and reconstruction — and let us hope that what may have seemed initially a failure may turn out to be part of the striking success of the United Nations. As if there is to be no respite from the challenges affecting this body, while we thought we were overcoming the problems of Kosovo there flared up the problem of East Timor. Saint Kitts and Nevis, as a small State, has been appalled at the wanton violence and death visited upon the East Timorese people since the referendum. This world body must roundly condemn the inhumane activities perpetrated against the people of East Timor only because in seeking to fulfil their aspirations to live as a sovereign people, they gave legitimate expression them. My Government would like to commend the work of the Secretary-General and all others who have sought to pull us back from this abyss of human disaster. Saint Kitts and Nevis urges the Indonesian authorities to discharge their obligations with maturity and to work together with the international community for the preservation of the peace and the protection of the people of East Timor. We welcome the acceptance by the Indonesian authorities of an international protective force and we pray that the people of East Timor will have their rights respected and be able to develop in freedom and democracy. We commend the recent commitment of the international community to the reconstruction and development of Kosovo and, now, to the people of East Timor. We still hope, however, that there will be equal responsiveness to the people of the Great Lakes region and the rest of sub-Saharan Africa. Since I have referred to the outrages in areas of the world which constitute a dark blot on the human condition, perhaps I ought to balance my remarks by recognizing that, in one area of the world, the Middle East, where peace for such a long time seemed illusive, a process of peace is now finally under way. I should place on record the appreciation of my country for all those who are assisting in the process of peace. We must continue to support the efforts of the peacemakers in order to ensure that the rhetoric of violence is silenced. Saint Kitts and Nevis urges the United Nations and fellow world leaders to work towards preserving the integrity of the country and the people of Kuwait and to ensure that they enjoy the dignity of life without fear. The territorial integrity of their national must be respected and preserved and the Security Council solution concerning Iraqi aggression in Kuwait should be fully implemented. By the same token, Saint Kitts and Nevis notes the peace process in Ireland and compliments all those who are contributing to the process. The world community should give its support to this initiative so that those who are seeking to retard the process of peaceful development will find no encouragement. At this point, Saint Kitts and Nevis would like to express profound condolences to the Government of the Republic of China on Taiwan on the loss of lives which resulted from the recent devastating earthquake. We hope that the process of recovery will be speedy. I call on the international community, therefore, to come to the assistance of Taiwan, which in times past has assisted willingly in bringing relief to countries facing similar disasters. Let me know say a word about the unsettled issue of the Chinese people on both sides of the Taiwan Strait. In doing so, let me first make it clear that it never has been and is not now the intention of my country to interfere in the internal affairs or to give offence to any State Member of the United Nations. Saint Kitts and Nevis is persuaded that the Chinese people have the capacity and the accumulated wisdom to find a solution to whatever their differences appear to be, but our relationship with 24 the authorities of the Republic of China, with whom we have conducted diplomatic relations since our independence in 1983, convinces me that the 22 million Chinese on Taiwan have a valuable contribution which they can make to international dialogue. The record of their development as a freedom-loving, peaceful, pluralistic democracy; the miraculous rebuilding of their economy; and their contribution to developing countries are all attributes which, in our view, require that they be recognized as being capable of making a contribution in international forums, including those of the United Nations. In addition to the scourges of human conflict, there are other evils which still stare us in the face in these last few months of the closing year of the century. Poverty still confronts the vast majority of mankind. Children are still dying of malnutrition and some, in order to get food, have to allow themselves to be victimized and turned into cannon fodder. Some still do not get an education. Indeed, there are many children around the world who do not enjoy a childhood. I am happy that the United Nations has declared the decade beginning 2001 to be the International Decade for a Culture of Peace and Non-violence for the Children of the World. The new millennium belongs to our children. It belongs to our children in Saint Kitts and Nevis and to the children of the world. We have a duty to help make, for them and with them, a better world than the one in which we now live. Additionally, I have noted that the agenda for this fifty-fourth session includes an item entitled “Building a peaceful and better world through sport and the Olympic ideal”. Saint Kitts and Nevis wishes to place on record its country's support for that item, as we are doing everything in our power to build the development of our youth through sports. By the same token, I am proud to report that our educational policies are yielding very positive results. We in Saint Kitts and Nevis have achieved a 98 per cent literacy rate and we have not only begun, but are intensifying the process of making all of our young people computer-literate and equipped to face the challenges of the new dawning century. Saint Kitts and Nevis welcomes the assistance of the international community to enable us to realize our objectives in this regard and to give this programme even greater forward thrust. It is our view that the technological advancement of the past 54 years, instead of creating dislocations, should be used to improve understanding. It should be used to improve efficiency of production and to provide better revenue allocation and better living standards. Saint Kitts and Nevis urges those countries with the wherewithal to demonstrate appropriate leadership. I encourage them to use the availability of and their access to these technologies not only to generate greater economic wealth for themselves, but also to advance the economic and social well-being of the citizens of the world. We applaud the progress being made with regard to women in development since the adoption of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action at the Fourth World Conference on Women on 15 September 1995. Our country has demonstrated its unswerving commitment to gender equity by our participation in the Committee on the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW). For its part, Saint Kitts and Nevis is currently implementing a new gender management system and is introducing measures to ensure that the national budget in my country is more sensitive to gender issues. We are grateful to the Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation for technical assistance in this regard. In a few days, the United Nations will convene a special session of the General Assembly for the review and appraisal of the implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action for the small island developing States. We trust that the international community will give due recognition to the efforts being made by small island States to implement their commitments under the Programme of Action and note that those efforts have been affected by financial and other resource constraints and by global, economic and environmental factors. We look forward, therefore, to the international community's providing continued support for capacity- and institution- building programmes and projects in the small island developing States. In the meantime, my Government welcomes the continued efforts of the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) in promoting the interests and concerns of small island States. All small island developing States, like those of us in the Caribbean, are susceptible to the vagaries of nature as well as to man-made difficulties. Just last week our brothers and sisters in the Bahamas, like those along the south-eastern coastal states of the United States of America, suffered terrible and destructive losses as a result of hurricane Floyd. I urge States Members of the United Nations to be generous in their support for any reconstruction endeavours for the thousands of displaced people. 25 Last year Saint Kitts and Nevis suffered a similar major blow, from hurricane Georges. The Assembly expressed its support for the efforts of my Government, and several other governments in the region, as we coped with that particular disaster. The Assembly also urged all States as a matter of urgency to contribute generously to the relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction efforts. It further requested the Secretary-General, in collaboration with the international financial institutions and other bodies and agencies of the United Nations system, to assist the affected Governments in identifying their medium- and long-term needs and in mobilizing resources, as well as helping with the task of rehabilitation and reconstruction in the affected Caribbean countries. I have dealt with this at some length because Saint Kitts and Nevis wishes to thank the Assembly for the support expressed in that decision. We hereby place on record that we have received assistance from the United Nations system and, in particular, from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and I assure the representatives in this world body that our efforts at rehabilitation have proceeded with what some have described as remarkable speed. But, however commendable emergency assistance is, it is not a formula for long-term, sustainable development. Countries such as ours need the continued support of the international community to ensure that our development is not sacrificed on the altar of globalization and trade liberalization. How will the banana farmers in Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, and Dominica, or the sugar- cane workers in Saint Kitts and Nevis preserve the integrity of their families? How will they preserve the dignity of a good standard of living when the impersonal tentacles of globalization reach out to deprive them of the resources they need to survive? Human rights, in their purest and most practical sense, embody the human condition in all its basic elements. Therefore, the United Nations, as a major guarantor of these rights, should act as a counterbalance to globalization, which has begun to take food away from our people instead of helping them. The World Trade Organization is expected to play a key role in promoting trade liberalization, thereby fuelling the globalization process. The World Trade Organization, however, is not a panacea for the ills of world trade. No new rules can alter the fact that in most areas of exports, developed countries will have a comparative advantage over developing countries. It is a basic principle in economics that a country with a comparative advantage in producing goods and services in given areas will always make money at the expense of countries that are less equipped. In short, the rules as now written will inevitably lead to a zero-sum situation where trade between developed countries and developing countries is concerned. A regime, therefore, of unrestricted trade can lead to tremendous shocks in the economy of the less developed countries with very critical repercussions for their citizens. As part of the Caribbean Community, we have already witnessed how the logic of applying the same rules to all, regardless of the level of economic development, has led to serious dislocation within the banana-producing countries of our Caribbean subregion. Saint Kitts and Nevis would prefer to see this body, through the United Nations Conference on Trade on Development (UNCTAD), take up the issue of what happens to countries caught in the toils of a free-trade regime. Saint Kitts and Nevis believes that this matter requires careful study by experts with a global perspective and it is our view that the United Nations is the one Organization capable of studying this issue objectively and putting recommendations before the leaders of the world to remedy what could potentially be a disaster for small, vulnerable economies. By and large, a country such as Saint Kitts and Nevis, which depends upon a buoyant tourist sector, the export of sugar and the provision of financial services cannot — I repeat, cannot — object in principle to a world of open economies. But our position is that a world economic order predicated upon open economies works best with countries whose economies are roughly equal. If we are committed to eradicating poverty in every area of this world, then we must address the implications for poverty that are inherent in trading arrangements. Those of us who live in the Caribbean, mostly in developing countries and small island States, are vulnerable and also affected by, inter alia, lack of capacity and human resource bases, the need for financial resources, social problems, high levels of poverty and the effects of globalization. We rely heavily on the coastal areas, as well as the marine environment in general, to achieve sustainable development, and meet our needs and goals. For us, in the context of sustainable development, the Caribbean Sea must be seen as a special area. Saint Kitts and Nevis earnestly expects that Member States, the international community and the United Nations system will actively support our efforts in order to develop and implement this concept and take action so as to avert the 26 threat of pollution from ship-generated waste, as well as accidental release of hazardous and noxious substances. Despite the socio-economic quagmire that bedevils and undermines our efforts, my Government has remained steadfast. It has remained committed to create more opportunities for the people of Saint Kitts and Nevis. But we are aware that the Government cannot solve these problems alone. There is a critical role for the private sector as well. My Government is equally committed to working with local and international businesses, without, however, surrendering the fate of our nation to disinterested forces that could wreak further havoc on their lives. My Government repeats its call for an expansion of the interpretation of human rights to incorporate fully economic rights and the right to development. In recognizing that there is an inseparable link between the human rights and economic rights of the individual, my Government has pledged to continue our programme to build affordable houses, create jobs, fight poverty and pursue new sources of local and foreign investment. My Government will be an avid partner and facilitator of business without compromising the quality of life for each of our citizens. There is an important part for national Governments to play in the protection of their citizens’ human rights, but there is a more substantial, comprehensive and far-reaching role for the United Nations as ultimate protector of the entire body of human rights. This means that there should be a greater partnership between the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the United Nations human rights mechanisms and other agencies and organs. In this way, new strategies can be devised for opening access to markets for those countries that continue to find themselves on the periphery of the international trading system. The Organization should help to create and investigate practical alternatives. Hence, I maintain that we need a United Nations that is informed by the inequities of the world economic systems, and is able to respond to the social challenges that are being exacerbated as a result. We do our best to achieve the eradication of poverty. Saint Kitts and Nevis seeks the support of the international community, thus building a bridge to a better world. Tomorrow’s world should open with our people finding answers to the request to give them each day their daily bread, and the kingdom of peace should be realized here on Earth. There is an urgency to match our deeds with our words so that we may, all of us, find the forgiveness which is necessary as the basis for building peace in this world. Last year I spoke of the viability of social-venture philanthropy through which Governments and businesses may collaborate with each other. This concept already exists at a similar level within many corporate structures. Companies are already engaged in projects that enhance and maintain a positive corporate image. We would take this further if companies would recognize the importance of preserving a good corporate culture by improving the standard of living of the national constituencies in which they do profitable business. A reformed United Nations, with its existing organs, funds and programmes, can help to implement such strategies. We must move with informed haste, because I fear that if we fail to translate the benefits of democracy, technological growth and economic wealth into tangible gains for our people, future chaos will not be far behind. I am one of those who refuse to accept that the developed world could be ignorant of the challenges facing the small and poor economies. I am reluctant to think that national interests could be so blinding that Governments neglect to realize that the problems plaguing any one region, for instance, have serious ramifications much further afield. We have to recommit to the elimination of the potent cancer of illicit drugs and global consequences. We are all victims. Therefore, we must all become partners. Let us commit to root out the menace of narco-trafficking that is becoming embedded in our various societies. I dare say that the multitude of problems before us is complex and very involved. The old paradigms that prevailed in the cold war have outlived their usefulness. It is not only those elements that directly threaten our political and strategic interests, but also those factors that undermine a country’s ability to preserve its economic, social and cultural fabric that should guide national interests. There is no longer one giant enemy, but there are a number of persistent factors that could conspire at any one time to destroy the delicate balance of our societies. In spite of all the shortcomings of this body, if the United Nations did not exist, it would be necessary to invent it, because there is no other organization that has contributed as much to the development of humankind. 27 Moreover, the Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis is happy to be given this opportunity to express its views on a number of issues of concern to my country. Without the United Nations, a micro State such as Saint Kitts and Nevis would never have been heard. Therefore, as we cross over into the new millennium, Saint Kitts and Nevis joins with the rest of the world as we commit ourselves to the continued development of the United Nations in order to ensure that all people everywhere will enjoy the fulfilment of the promise of peace, prosperity and progress.   Let me begin by congratulating you, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. This is an expression of delegations’ confidence in and high esteem for your diplomatic skills, and reflects also the distinguished role which your country has played in furthering the goals of this Assembly. I assure you of the full support and cooperation of the Tanzanian delegation as you guide the deliberations during this session. I wish also to commend your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, for ably presiding over the Assembly at its fifty- third session. I congratulate very specially the Secretary- General of the United Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the able and distinguished manner in which he has continued to manage and guide the affairs of our Organization in the face of many daunting challenges. This last General Assembly session of the century and millennium, provides an opportunity to review the past and draw lessons from it. We must build on the positive, even as we mobilize the individual and collective will to avoid carrying the baggage of poverty, conflict and human rights violations into the next century. The role of the United Nations system must also be re-examined in accordance with the new vision we have for the future. The twentieth century witnessed tremendous advances in science and technology. But the benefits were not shared widely, let alone equally. Unprecedented economic development and prosperity has been attained, with world consumption topping $24 trillion in 1998, twice the level of 1975 and six times that of 1950. But, on a world scale, the 20 per cent of the world’s people in the highest income countries consumed 86 per cent of the world’s goods and services, producing a corresponding degree of pollution and environmental damage. And a whole fifth of humanity has been left completely out of this prosperity. This century has also experienced major international conflicts, particularly the two world wars. The existence of a bipolar system driven by ideological differences, and the resultant arms race that led to the abuse of science which was the development of weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear weapons, exacerbated the security situation in the world. To its credit, the United Nations Organization has laid the foundation and framework for the attainment of peace, security, development and human rights. The United Nations actively supported liberation struggles all over the world, and we are entering the new millennium having accomplished the mission of political decolonization in most countries. Of particular gratification to Africa is the end of apartheid. We have also witnessed the end of the cold war, even though the peace dividend has yet to reach all corners of the globe and include the innocent victims of the cold war. For, as the African proverb has it, when two elephants fight, it is the grass that suffers. Africa has unfortunately been left behind in development. Despite the positive macroeconomic achievements in recent years, the average African household today consumes 20 per cent less than it did 25 years ago. Other new, critical challenges facing Africa include conflicts and the urgent need to consolidate the rule of law, human rights and democratic governance. The United Nations in the coming century will be measured, among other things, by the degree to which these issues, particularly the development dimension, are addressed. The United Nations, by virtue of its global reach, its universal membership and its impartiality, has a vital role to play to ensure there is equity between the response to the challenges facing Africa and those facing other parts of the world. The United Nations should also continue its role of coordinating the United Nations system, including the Bretton Woods institutions, the World Trade Organization and regional economic commissions. We reiterate the need for broadening and strengthening the participation of developing countries in international decision-making. Democracy and good governance between nations is as important to humanity as democracy and good governance within nations. Processes of liberalization and globalization of the world economy have profound implications for Africa and other least developed countries in terms of their position in the world economy, their development prospects, the nature of their economic policies and their impact on economic sovereignty. The community of nations, at the dawn of a new millennium, should rethink the mechanisms and policies that underpin the functioning of the global economy to create a conducive international environment that ensures the rapid economic development of the least developed countries. We need a system whose pillars are growth, stability and social equity, and which should facilitate the integration of least developed countries into the world economy in a beneficial way. These countries, particularly those in Africa, remain constrained by weak supply capabilities, which, when compounded by an unfavourable international economic environment, limit their ability to benefit from globalization. The trend of the last few years does not give us much comfort. From 1990 to 1996, African exports of goods grew by only 2 per cent on average. The long-term objective of our development efforts is to improve production of quality goods and services that can meet local needs and be exported. We see trade as a dynamic force for accelerating growth and development. We are, however, aware of our limitations in producing such products for the international market. Our economies still largely rely on the production of commodities, in respect of which terms of trade continue to worsen. The issue of commodities should thus continue to be central to the international development agenda. In particular, we urge the international community to provide resources and technical assistance to countries that depend on commodities to build the capacity for vertical and horizontal diversification of commodities. Furthermore, developed countries and funding institutions should increase their support to the Common Fund for Commodities, including fulfilment of their pledges. The United Nations should also reconsider the proposal for the establishment of a special fund to promote commodity diversification in Africa. We hope that the Seattle ministerial meeting of the World Trade Organization (WTO) will give further impetus to the implementation of measures to assist least developed countries to become integrated into the international trading system in a meaningful way. We call upon the donor community to extend financial and technical assistance towards the implementation of integration frameworks prepared by the least developed countries. The burden of debt is one of the main obstacles to the achievement of the economic and social development objectives of African and other least developed countries. These countries devote a high proportion, in some cases 2 exceeding 30 per cent, of government revenue to debt service payment, with the consequent risk of social and political instability. We welcome the various debt relief initiatives undertaken by the donor community. They provide some relief, but more far-reaching measures, including debt forgiveness, need to be taken urgently to have an impact on poverty. Tanzania welcomes the revisions made to the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt (HIPC) Initiative at the Cologne summit of the Group of Seven. However, if growth is to be sustained, adequate levels of external funding must complement our economic reform efforts. Nor should debt relief under the HIPC Initiative be a substitute for increased bilateral non-debt-creating aid, and neither should it be financed through reallocation of committed aid. Tanzania has established a multilateral-debt-relief fund to help it service multilateral debt so as to direct the savings to poverty-reducing activities in the social sector, such as education, health and water services. We have shown that it is possible to link debt relief directly to poverty eradication initiatives in a transparent and accountable manner that involves government, civil society and donor countries. The debt relief we have received through the fund has gone straight to cushioning the social sector budget. I want to thank the Governments of Denmark, Finland, Ireland, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom, which have contributed to our war on poverty by contributing to our multilateral- debt-relief fund account. My delegation is deeply disturbed by the drastic decline in official development assistance to less than one third of the internationally agreed target of 0.7 per cent of the gross national product of donor countries. For five years continuously, from 1992 to 1997, aid as a percentage of gross national product in countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) fell, from a combined average of 0.33 per cent to an all-time low of 0.22 per cent. This trend needs to be reversed as a matter of urgency. But what is needed is aid that increasingly enhances our capacity for ownership of the development agenda and process, and our capacity to be self-developing. We do not want the kind of aid that takes from us the initiative for development in dignity, and increases rather than reduces dependency on aid. Among other things, we need aid that will help us develop an attractive environment for private- sector investment, domestic and foreign. Technology is a key factor in the development process. The recent great strides in technology present tremendous opportunities for human development. However, this technological revolution has largely bypassed African and other least developed countries. The United Nations, and the international community at large, should facilitate and finance access to and transfer of technology, including new and environmentally sound technologies, for developing countries on favourable, including consessional, or grant terms. Tanzania is working closely with other countries to find a peaceful resolution to conflicts in the Great Lakes region, particularly in Burundi and in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The Burundi peace process, under the facilitation of Mwalimu Julius K. Nyerere, is going well in Arusha. The main sticking point is security arrangements that would instil confidence and trust for all, as well as a democratic process involving all stakeholders. We hope that these problems will be resolved in the coming rounds of talks, so that a peace agreement can be reached as soon as possible. The international community should therefore continue urging full participation by all the key players in the Arusha peace process. All attempts to wreck the negotiations, under any pretext, should be discouraged. Concerning the Democratic Republic of the Congo, it is very encouraging that all the parties involved in the conflict have finally signed the Lusaka ceasefire Agreement. The challenge ahead is to not let the momentum ebb, but to move expeditiously to implement the truce, including sending and empowering Organization of African Unity (OAU) observers and a United Nations peacekeeping force, as envisaged. Angola continues to experience a fratricidal war waged by rebel UNITA forces against the legal Government of Angola. Clearly, Jonas Savimbi has violated the Lusaka Peace Agreement and has shown contempt for international opinion. It is counterproductive for the United Nations to remove its observer team from Angola, as this would send a negative signal that the international community is abandoning Angola in its hour of need. The most recent summit of the Southern African Development Community (SADC), held in Maputo, expressed solidarity with the Government of President Dos Santos and pledged to give him moral and material support. The international community should likewise be forthright in its support for the Angolan Government and 3 in condemning Jonas Savimbi as the war criminal that he is. Action commensurate with the gravity of his insolence and his human rights abuses should likewise be taken against him. On Western Sahara, Tanzania is following closely the peace process under the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO). We hope that a solution to the crisis will be found through a referendum as provided for in the United-Nations-brokered peace process without any further unnecessary delays. My delegation commends the truces and negotiated settlements reached in the conflicts in Guinea-Bissau, Sierra Leone and Liberia, even as we urge practical commitment to peace and reconciliation in the Ethiopia-Eritrea war. I wish also to commend and encourage the positive developments unfolding in Middle East. I urge Chairman Arafat and Prime Minister Barak to remain committed to the peace process and to move with courage and vision to the next stages that will ensure the durable and shared peace and security that has eluded the Palestinian and Israeli people for so long. From this podium, I denounce the merchants of war fuelling conflicts on the African continent. Arms dealers should stop supplying weapons to conflict areas. Countries should adhere to the relevant international conventions prohibiting the arms trade, especially between non-state entities. It is immoral and unacceptable that natural resources such as gold, diamonds, oil and timber, which should be exploited to build a better future for African children, are being used instead to buy weapons from rich countries and arms dealers, with which to kill and maim those very children and their parents. Associated with conflicts in the Great Lakes region is the problem of refugees. Tanzania has received refugees for over 40 years now. As I speak, we still host over 800,000 refugees, some in refugee camps and many others in settlement camps and elsewhere in society. We have always received refugees out of humanitarian concerns in the African way and in fulfilment of our international obligations. We have never turned away those fleeing to save their lives, and we have never negotiated refugee quotas with other countries. Yet even for us, the time comes when we must appeal for more help to give us the capacity to provide succour and refuge to these people. I pay tribute to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Mrs. Ogata, and her colleagues for the efforts they are making to draw international attention to African refugees and displaced persons. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) has done much, but it can only do as much as the international community gives it resources to do. I urge greater support to UNHCR and other relief agencies working in Tanzania, and greater support to my Government. A lasting solution to the refugee problem, however, lies in resolving the root causes in the refugee-generating countries. This would enable UNHCR to begin the repatriation process, as was done successfully in the case of Rwanda three years ago. Four years ago, the United Nations established the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda in Arusha. Apart from the Tribunal’s early teething problems, the Government of Tanzania lauds its many precedent-setting achievements in the emerging area of international criminal justice. We commend the improvements in the efficiency of the Tribunal’s operations and management under its Registrar. As we pledge to continue fully supporting the Tribunal in accordance with our obligations as the host country, we call upon the United Nations and the entire international community to continue providing all necessary support, including resources and manpower, until the task of prosecuting all culprits in the Rwanda genocide episode is successfully accomplished. A strong and clear message must come out of this Assembly that no war criminal will ever escape the long arm of international law. Tanzania adds its voice to the denunciation of the violent attempts to thwart the fulfilment of the desire of the people of East Timor to be free and sovereign, clearly and preponderantly expressed in a free and fair referendum. The results of the referendum must be respected and the Timorese people’s aspirations realized. The international community must assume its responsibility to see this process to a successful conclusion. No effort and no sacrifice is too big to be made in that regard. We commend and encourage the decision of the Government of Indonesia to invite and cooperate with international efforts under the United Nations to stop the massacres and mayhem and to ensure that the wishes of the majority of the people of East Timor are unequivocally met. 4 We in Tanzania believe that no national or global efforts to eradicate poverty can succeed unless and until they address the specific problems related to the poverty of women. We urge the United Nations to continue promoting gender equality issues, including the provision of resources and technical assistance to enhance women’s education, health and other projects aimed at their empowerment. My Government is striving to make sure that women are given opportunity to fully participate in all levels of decision-making and that they get equal access to education and access to credits on a preferential basis. We have also taken measures to protect women, girls and children from sexual harassment and abuse. Tanzania has most stringent legislation on sexual offences that provides for punishment up to life imprisonment. There is also a new Land Law providing for complete gender equality in the ownership, use and disposal of land and which supersedes customary land law. There are also laws to protect the rights of women in marriage, child custody and inheritance, which are being reviewed to address all the concerns of women. Special efforts are also being made to increase the enrolment of girls and women at all levels of education. These are challenging times, especially for developing countries. Yet, I believe there is a ray hope for building the foundations of a more equitable and dynamic system of international development cooperation through the smart partnership approach of a “win-win” outcome for all players. As we enter the new millennium, I wish to reiterate our firm commitment to cooperating with others in achieving the goals of the United Nations Charter, particularly those relating to the promotion of economic development and prosperity, peace and security and a better world for present and future generations. As we enter the century of globalization, let all Governments ask the question: Are we globalizing prosperity or are we globalizing poverty? Are we striving for the kind of political correctness that eschews affluence amid poverty or for that which manufactures euphemisms for poverty, pretending it will go away? In a vivid cartoon in 1965, Jules Feiffer portrayed the plight of the poor in these words: “I used to think I was poor. Then they told me I wasn’t poor; I was needy. Then they told me it was self-defeating to think of myself as needy; I was deprived. Then they told me that underprivileged was overused; I was disadvantaged. I still don’t have a dime. But I have a great vocabulary.” That plight of the poor persists equally poignantly to this day. We have spoken much; perhaps too much. The archives of this Organization are bursting with studies and ideas and reviews. Let us strive to do more and talk less in the new century.  Let me first of all congratulate you, Mr. President, on your unanimous election to preside over the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. Only a few years ago, the United Nations was actively involved in the decolonization of then South West Africa, now Namibia. Today, it is with a great sense of pride, therefore, that we see not only an old freedom fighter but also a consummate diplomat from Namibia presiding over the last session of the General Assembly of the second millennium and ushering in the beginning of the third. I have no doubt whatsoever that with your vast experience you will steer this historic session to a successful conclusion. You can rest assured of the full support and cooperation of the Gambian delegation in carrying out your important assignments. May I also take this opportunity to pay tribute to the outgoing President, Mr. Didier Opertti of Uruguay, for the business like manner in which he conducted the fifty-third session, an eventful period indeed, characterized by far- reaching decisions in areas of common concern to the international community. In the same vein, I would like to commend our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the exemplary way in which he has been handling the affairs of our Organization. Today, the membership of our Organization stands at the impressive figure of 188. In this connection, I would like, on behalf of the Government and the people of the Gambia, and indeed on my own behalf, to congratulate the Republic of Nauru, the Republic of Kiribati and the Kingdom of Tonga on their admission to membership in the United Nations. We are confident that these new Member States will bring with them all the charm and wisdom of island nations to enrich the work of the United Nations. All nations, big or small, have something to offer. This is particularly true of small States that have no spheres of influence to preserve, but the honest desire to participate in and contribute to the betterment of our world. Small States have the advantage of coming up with refreshing ideas and offering new perspectives in the search for solutions to problems of common concern. Making this world a better place for the human race to live in is the collective responsibility of all of us. All States, big or small, should contribute to the collective endeavour to rid this world of wars, hunger, destitution, disease, suffering, homelessness, despair, terror, tyranny and economic backwardness. Making this world a better place to live is not a far- fetched dream. It is a goal we can achieve if all nations, collectively as well as individually, sincerely commit themselves to working towards achieving this goal. Our very survival as the human race in the new millennium depends on the achievement of this noble objective. How do we achieve this noble objective? First of all, we must commit ourselves to living and working for peace on earth. We must respect the sovereign rights of nations, big or small, rich or poor, to exist without fear of being marginalized, suppressed or intimidated by larger, richer or more populous nations. This is why, quite apart from the principle of universality, my Government 4 sincerely believes that this body should seriously reconsider its position on the readmission of the Republic of China on Taiwan to the United Nations. With a population of almost 22 million and the nineteenth-largest economy in the world, and being the fifteenth-largest trading nation, the Republic of China — a highly responsible member of the international community, a free and democratic country that has always promoted world trade and socio-economic development around the world and at the same time has contributed to the eradication of poverty — has a lot to offer if readmitted to the United Nations. By allowing the 22 million people in Taiwan to be represented in the United Nations, we would be enforcing the principles enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, as well as contributing to the promotion of international peace and security. Where this Assembly has recognized the then existence of two Germanies and the present existence of the two Koreas, the logic of the readmission of the Republic of China into this Assembly of nations is a matter of justice and equity. How can the United Nations sideline such an important country as if we were still living in the past? For reasons that we all know too well, in 1971, the General Assembly adopted resolution 2758 (XXVI), by which it conferred membership upon the People's Republic of China. But the same resolution failed miserably to address the issue of representation in the United Nations for the people of the Republic of China on Taiwan. The cold war is over. The time has now come to correct this sad mistake, and there could not be a better time than now, when we are at the threshold of the twenty-first century, to recognize the Republic of China and, by extension, the voice of its 22 million people. Having said that, I would now like to focus attention closer to home for a few minutes. Five years ago, when I led the Gambia National Army to take over the reigns of power in the Gambia, I was motivated by the sole desire to rescue my people from the abyss of despair and destruction after 30 years of rampant corruption and nepotism, to say the least. There was a general laissez-faire attitude that was rapidly assuming alarming proportions and that could have spelt disaster for the country had we not stepped in to put to an end the excesses of a rotten and morally bankrupt regime. It would be hard for anyone to imagine that a Government elected by the people would deprive its citizens of their basic needs for 30 long years. Not a single school, not a single hospital was built by that Government. That was why during the two-year transition to constitutional democratic rule, my Government immediately embarked on an intensive socio-economic development programme, building schools, hospitals, roads and bridges and carrying out other infrastructural development projects, such as building a new airport terminal and the extension of the port of Banjul. It is now a thing of the past for any child to worry about trekking miles and miles to school. There are enough schools in all the administrative areas in the country, including high schools, for our children, especially the girls, to stay close to their homes and families. In this way we encourage parents to send their girls to school. In addition to encouraging and increasing access to basic education for all Gambian children, my Government has identified a need to provide tertiary education and has established a university. The first batch of students will enrol in the University of The Gambia in October 1999. Similarly, in the area of health, we have so far built two major hospitals, and a number of health centres around the country. Obviously we could not put right all the neglect of 30 years in just two years, but the difference is clear. Naturally the people of the Gambia wanted more progress. I was therefore persuaded by people across the country to resign from the army and run for office in a free and fair election under international supervision. I accepted the challenge, strengthened in my conviction that a direct mandate from the people would enable me to work harder for them. We have since been making greater strides in the uphill task of nation- building. The very survival of the Gambia in this ever- changing world is an issue of major concern as we step into the next century, which will be fraught with many daunting challenges. The Gambia, like many other developing countries, has been forced to rethink its development agenda while looking for a more meaningful living environment for its people. The desire of both Government and people for a developed nation is clearly expressed in the country's development blueprint, “Vision 2020, The Gambia Incorporated”. Our macroeconomic policies and strategies continue to be spearheaded by Vision 2020, with an overall goal of achieving sustainable growth and eradicating poverty. My Government is working very closely with the World Bank, the European Union, the United Nations 5 Development Programme and all the specialized agencies of the United Nations system in their fields of competence in order to eradicate poverty, illiteracy and disease so that as a healthy nation founded on solid, democratic principles of good governance, we can stride ahead to build a nation with a strong economy in an atmosphere of social justice and political stability. Recognizing that improving the governance environment is a sine qua non for sustainable development, the Government of the Gambia has incorporated good- governance strategies in all national development initiatives and plans. The Gambia National Governance Programme, which was recently launched, was developed through an extensive process of consultation and consensus-building. In our bid to create an atmosphere of dignity and respect for our citizenry we are fully committed to democratic constitutionality. We consider this the only feasible political framework for good governance, which is an essential prerequisite for sustainable development. We also believe that democracy cannot exist in a situation of abject poverty. Our national governance programme includes provisions for constitutional review and reform of the electoral system and process; reform of parliamentary structures and processes; civic education; reform of the legal and judicial process; public-sector management and administrative reform; and decentralization and local government reform. Given the complexity and scope of the governance policy framework, its effective implementation will require careful planning and mobilization of resources. A round- table conference, to be organized very soon, will seek to mobilize further support to cover part of the funding gap. It is our hope that our partners in development will continue to support us in this endeavour. We are mindful that meaningful socio-economic development can be brought about and be sustained only in an atmosphere of stability and security — not only in our own country, but also in its neighbouring countries. With the world becoming more globalized, lack of security and peace in any one part of the world affects the rest of mankind, especially those of us in the developing countries. We place a high premium on the maintenance of peace and stability both at home and abroad. This is why, in our sister republic of Guinea-Bissau, we all worked hard, encouraged by the rest of the international community, to put a definitive end to the conflict there. In our efforts to achieve this objective, we, together with other West African countries, participated in the Economic Community of West African States Monitoring Group (ECOMOG) peacekeeping operations in Guinea-Bissau, even though the whole mission itself was short-lived. Now that peace and stability have been returned to that country, we encourage the international community to contribute to the country's reconciliation and reconstruction effort. The Gambia, as coordinator of the work of the group of friends of Guinea-Bissau at the United Nations, will continue to play a leading role in this endeavour. In the same vein, in our continuing search for peace and stability in our subregion we in the Gambia have spearheaded efforts to mediate in the Casamance question through dialogue. As a result, in June of this year we gathered together in Banjul all the stakeholders in the Casamance issue with a view to providing a forum for the Movement of Democratic Forces of Casamance (MFDC) factions to articulate a common position for their impending dialogue with the Government of Senegal. This has been yielding positive results as it has already led to a cessation of hostilities in the Casamance region of Senegal. The cessation of hostilities, which is a consequence of the Banjul encounters, has been so encouraging that refugees have started to return home even before a final settlement is reached. At last we can see light at the end of the tunnel. The momentum created by the Banjul meetings among the MFDC factions should be maintained. A final MFDC meeting will soon be convened and is expected to herald formal consultations between the Government of Senegal and the MFDC. These, we hope, will lead to a lasting settlement that will put an end to the devastation and its attendant human suffering. Meanwhile, in our sister Republic of Sierra Leone, it is gratifying to note that a peace agreement has now been signed between the Government and the Revolutionary United Front after almost nine years of one of the most devastating, fratricidal and brutal wars of our time, a war characterized by outrageous atrocities committed by the rebels. We commend the efforts of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) leaders, ECOMOG, the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Sierra Leone and all those who contributed in one way or another to bringing about this peaceful resolution of the conflict. The Lomé Peace Agreement is not the ideal peace agreement, but most peace agreements come with a price. 6 The Sierra Leonean people paid dearly. We hope that, despite all the shortcomings of the Agreement, it will create hope and opportunity for the people of Sierra Leone and free them from terror, violence, killings, amputations and the many other atrocities that characterized this war. The people of Sierra Leone have also welcomed this chance to make a fresh start. They should not be abandoned to fate. The international community has an obligation to come in rapidly, and in a big way, to help in the implementation of the Agreement. It would be an understatement to say that Africa is making great strides in the peaceful resolution of conflicts there. A good example is the complex conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo: we are encouraged by the signing of a Ceasefire Agreement in Lusaka. On behalf of the Government and people of the Gambia, I thank President Chiluba of Zambia and all other leaders in Africa who contributed to finding a political settlement to this complex conflict. We note that the Security Council has deployed military liaison officers to the relevant States to lay the groundwork for the deployment of military observers. We appreciate this move by the United Nations. We must, however, sound a note of caution: the situation is extremely volatile. We must therefore move swiftly, before there is a relapse into fighting. We must not let this opportunity slip away. Likewise, in the Ethiopia-Eritrea conflict, we welcome the calm that has prevailed for a while. Most importantly, we welcome the agreement of the parties to the Organization of African Unity (OAU) Framework Agreement. We commend the leadership role of the OAU in its efforts to resolve this fratricidal conflict. We must, however, say that we are yet to see a ceasefire agreement. The parties must therefore be encouraged to translate their pronouncements into action by signing a ceasefire agreement immediately. We must emphasize that the United Nations should be ready to come in as soon as it is propitious to contribute to the implementation of the agreement. After a long and difficult period of negotiations, some good news is coming out of Western Sahara. We note with appreciation that the identification process has progressed considerably. Plans for the repatriation of the refugees have also advanced. Finally, we are coming close to the referendum. We praise the Kingdom of Morocco for its flexibility, understanding, cooperation and courage throughout this period. Elsewhere on the continent, the political landscape is still hazy. In Angola, the peace process has broken down completely due to UNITA's intransigence and flat refusal to implement in good faith the Lusaka Protocol. It is very clear to all of us that there is no military solution to that conflict. After about 30 years of war, the people of Angola have suffered enormously, especially the women and children. The future of a whole generation has been compromised. We urge the international community to take decisive action to ensure a peaceful and speedy resolution of that conflict. To this end, we welcome the recent re-establishment of a United Nations presence in Angola. Such a presence is vital, but clearly it must be buttressed by a resolute commitment of the Security Council to producing the much-needed peace in Angola as soon as possible. In the case of Somalia, it is a completely different scenario. The warlords are holding the international community hostage because of their own insatiable appetite to assume power at all costs. We note that the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) is doing all it can to resolve this long and complex conflict, but without much success. If a resolution to this conflict is to be found, we should shake off the Somalia syndrome and re-engage the issue. The international community should recommit itself to the resolution of the Somali crisis by developing a strategy that would send clear signals to the warlords that their behaviour and attitude can no longer be tolerated by civilized society. In the case of the Sudan, my delegation welcomes wholeheartedly the peace overtures of the Government. We believe that they are a first step in the right direction. We encourage the other side to respond, and to respond positively. The international community should also support the parties in finding a lasting solution. This brief survey of the theatres of conflict in Africa reveals once again that our continent unfortunately continues to claim the lion's share of trials and tribulations. This is as embarrassing as it is unacceptable and we must redouble our efforts to reverse the situation. Away from the African continent, there are other conflict situations that continue to pose serious threats to 7 international peace and security and, therefore, are of serious concern to my delegation. With regard to the Arab-Israeli conflict, my Government, whilst reiterating its full support for the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people and the principle of land for peace, leading to an independent Palestinian homeland, also supports fully the Middle East peace process and the remarkable leadership role that the United States is playing to move the process forward. The solution to the problem lies both with Israel and in Palestine, as well as with the international community. This is why we believe that the implementation of the Wye River agreement, in letter and spirit, would usher in a new era of hope for the entire Middle East region. Elsewhere in the Middle East, my delegation continues to follow very closely the consequences of the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait — in particular, the unresolved problems of the Kuwaiti prisoners of war, missing persons, the Kuwaiti archives and stolen property. There is nothing more painful than the mental torture that the families of the prisoners of war and missing persons have been going through all these years. To treat this matter lightly would be tantamount to adding insult to injury. We can imagine the pain, the anguish, the uncertainty and the endless nightmares of over 600 Kuwaiti families still hoping to hear from their loved ones. This is why my Government will never allow this aspect of the problem between Iraq and Kuwait to be swept under the carpet. It is a humanitarian problem that must not be politicized and must be given all the attention that it deserves. In the same vein, the restitution of the Kuwaiti archives and other property is something that cannot be relegated to the category of secondary issues. Depriving a nation of its archives is like robbing it of its national identity. As for the question of the disarmament of Iraq, we deplore the current stalemate. The status quo is unacceptable, yet the Security Council appears to be divided on how to move forward. The Council should show unity and remain steadfast; otherwise it would be sending the wrong signal: that any country can dictate the terms of its compliance with the wishes of the international community and get away with it. If that is allowed to happen, we would be setting a very dangerous precedent. Council members must make an effort to draw a line between their narrow national interests and the collective interests of humankind. Just as we are unequivocal with regard to the disarmament of Iraq, we are equally uncompromising when it comes to the alleviation of the unwarranted suffering of the ordinary Iraqi people who, unfortunately, have to bear the brunt of any sanctions. The oil-for-food programme is a laudable effort to mitigate the impact of sanctions, but that is just about it. We want to see the removal, destruction or rendering harmless of all Iraqi weapons of mass destruction, but we do not subscribe to the destruction of Iraq under any pretext whatsoever. It is disheartening to see what sanctions have done to the innocent women, children and elderly people of Iraq. This, too, is unacceptable and was not the objective of the sanctions. A net distinction must henceforth be made between the regime and the people. As with all other existing and future sanctions, they must be clearly targeted at those responsible in order to avoid inflicting undue pain and suffering on innocent people. Still on the thorny issue of sanctions, my Government is pleased that sanctions imposed on the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya have been suspended, but we cannot wait to see them lifted completely because Libya has fulfilled all its international obligations under the relevant Security Council resolutions. We call for the immediate and complete lifting of all the sanctions imposed on the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. Cuba, too, has been reeling under unjust sanctions for 38 years now. These sanctions should be scrapped because they are counterproductive and inhumane. We are of the opinion that the new millennium should usher in an era devoid of avoidable and man-made disasters and conflicts that wreak untold suffering on the innocent. Today, at the threshold of the new millennium, we should forgive and forget the past and reconcile in order to make this world a better place for mankind. We therefore reiterate our call for the immediate lifting of the economic and financial blockade imposed on Cuba. Whilst it is important to uphold the principle of non- interference in the internal affairs of States, when a State exceeds all bounds and engages in the heinous policy of ethnic cleansing, as in Kosovo, the rest of the international community cannot remain silent. The timely adoption of Security Council resolution 1244 (1999) marked a watershed in the history of the conflict, the full implementation of which, we hope, will bring lasting peace to Kosovo. On the issue of East Timor, I would like to congratulate the East Timorese on the successful conduct 8 of the historic ballot. Nothing would have been possible, though, without the courageous first step that was taken by the Indonesian Government leading to the 5 May Agreement, which in turn set the whole process in motion. However, we are greatly appalled at and shocked by the level of violence that ensued immediately after the verdict of the East Timorese people was made known to the international community. In this context, we welcome the deployment of the multinational force. While we rejoice with the people of Kosovo and East Timor for the timely international efforts to restore peace, we cannot but express despair at the slow or sometimes lack of response to African conflicts. We insist that one life in Angola or elsewhere in Africa is no less important than one life in Kosovo or East Timor. The Security Council must therefore be evenhanded and establish principled criteria for humanitarian intervention. In the wake of the many conflicts the world over, there should be a concerted international effort to address the issue of impunity. We share the philosophy that there can be no peace without justice, no justice without law and no meaningful law without a court to decide what is just and lawful under any given circumstances. Because of this conviction, we support international efforts to establish an International Criminal Court (ICC) which would have jurisdiction over war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity. We encourage all States to consider ratifying the Statute of the ICC. The Gambia has already signed the Statute and has since set the process in motion for its ratification. There is a phenomenon, though, that constitutes a cause for greater concern to my delegation, and that is the recruitment and conscription of children as soldiers. This constitutes a total breakdown of our fundamental value systems. It must be stopped, as it is a blatant violation of international law and all norms of civilized behaviour. The issue of the child soldier is a moral one, and it is the collective responsibility of the international community to fight against a situation where the leaders of tomorrow are exposed to a life of violence, vengeance and hate, a situation which breeds in their minds the dangerous notion that he who wields the gun demands and deserves respect. The plight of the children in the refugee camps does not augur well for a brighter future as they invariably grow up with vengeful hearts towards those they deem to be responsible for their plight. In a nutshell, an end to all conflicts is the only means to arrest this tragic trend. Another social malaise of a deadlier threat to all societies, rich and poor alike, is the drug menace. This scourge threatens the very fabric of society and indeed the fixture of mankind, as it respects no national boundary. It is also a major cause of most crimes and violence in our urban centres, and it has grown to such proportions that it is beyond the capacity of any single State to eradicate it. Thus, we applaud the timely initiative of President Ernesto Zedillo of Mexico for convening a special session devoted to the drug problem. This special session no doubt rekindled the interest that we all share in the fight against drugs. We all crave for a drug-free world. A daunting task though it may be, we must take up the challenge because the stakes are so high that we cannot afford to be complacent. The issue of small arms and landmines is also a perennial problem which continues to fuel and exacerbate conflicts in Africa and elsewhere with devastating consequences. We oppose the proliferation of small arms and the laying of landmines and call for international partnership to address this concern. In this context, we urge arms manufacturing countries to exercise restraint in their transfer of arms to regions of conflict. In this context, we welcome the entry into force of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their Destruction. Equally worrisome is the illicit trafficking in small arms and sensitive technologies. On the wider question of disarmament, whilst we recognize the efforts being made towards the achievement of a fissile material cut-off treaty and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, we continue to add our voice to the campaign for the total elimination of all nuclear weapons. Meanwhile, we look forward to the Preparatory Committee for the 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Before closing the chapter on the review of the international political scene, I would like to thank all the people and organizations, as well as members of the international community, who have been working relentlessly to devise peaceful and negotiated solutions to the problems besetting mankind today. We, the younger generation, would want to live in a conflict-free and crisis-free world in the third millennium. We would want to bequeath to the next generation a world devoid of wars, poverty, hunger, racism and deprivation; a world where the whole of humankind would live like a single family; a world where meaningful socio-economic 9 development would be the collective responsibility of all the world's citizens; a world where peace, love, mutual respect and collective security would be the order of the day. It has since become an established fact that poverty is the root cause of many conflicts in the world, particularly in Africa. It is gratifying to note that following the social summit a number of poverty eradication strategies have been elaborated, and it is our fervent hope that the special session of the General Assembly devoted to the implementation of the outcome of the World Summit for Social Development and further initiatives will give fresh impetus to the campaign for the eradication of poverty. One effective way of eradicating poverty in Africa would be the total cancellation of all of the continent's external debts. The debt burden is the cause of untold suffering to the masses of Africa's women, children and the elderly. Regarding the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative (HIPC), much as it could be characterized as laudable, it must be recognized that the eligibility criteria for accessing HIPC assistance are very restrictive and penalize those countries that really need assistance. For example, the Gambia, with a high debt service ratio of 33 per cent of the gross domestic product, although meeting the other two criteria — first, establishing a track record of good performance and, secondly, eligibility under the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility and International Development Association-sponsored programmes — has been excluded. My delegation strongly appeals for an across-the-board cancellation of all Africa's debts so as to give us a new lease on life in the coming millennium. Talk about poverty eradication would be incomplete without mention of the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative on Africa. I have no doubt whatsoever that if the resources required are made available to fund all the components of the Initiative within a reasonable time-frame, we could already claim victory in the battle against poverty. In this regard, we note with satisfaction, the Economic and Social Council meeting held in Geneva during the month of July and the attention given to the segment on the development of Africa. All said and done, in this era of globalization and liberalization, our salvation lies in regional integration and cooperation if we are to achieve economies of scale and collective self-reliance. This is why we in the Gambia attach a lot of importance to Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) as one of the building blocks of the African Economic Community. For us Africans, the Lagos Plan of Action and indeed the Final Act of Lagos constitute the blue print for the economic development of Africa. It is even more relevant today than ever before. At the continental level, we the African leaders decided at the recently concluded OAU extraordinary summit in Sirte, Libya, to form a Union of African States which would put us in a better position to tackle the continent's economic and political crises that have plagued us throughout this century. However, I want to emphasize that the objective of this African continental union is not to form a military bloc, but an economic and political one capable of resolving Africa's numerous crises and conflicts, with the ultimate objective of eradicating poverty in Africa. Today, as we speak, the gap between rich and poor has widened threefold. The 1999 Human Development Report has made stunning revelations, raised important issues and made a series of recommendations. The challenges are daunting, but with the necessary political will poverty can be eradicated, and, as stated in that report the challenge is “to ensure that globalization works for people — not just for profits”. In this endeavour, there should be greater cooperation between North and South. I would like at this juncture to salute President Bill Clinton's bold initiative to visit the African continent, the second by a sitting American President in peacetime. This visit is very important as it gives the United States Administration first-hand knowledge of the numerous problems and challenges facing our continent. It also strengthens the historic bonds linking the United States and Africa. This is a positive development that should be nurtured, as the United States will continue to play a pivotal role in Africa's socio-economic development. The massive financial and economic assistance given to some African countries as a result of the visit could go a long way towards improving the living conditions of the people in those countries, as well as ensuring a bright future for the African continent as a whole. Thus, I cannot but express my sincere appreciation and gratitude, on behalf of the youth of Africa, for this bold and laudable initiative taken by President Clinton, and I hope that it will be emulated by future United States Administrations. 10 It is our fervent hope, therefore, that as we approach the threshold of the new millennium, we will draw inspiration from the Charter of the United Nations by giving concrete expression to the pledge made therein “to employ international machinery for the promotion of the economic and social advancement of all peoples”. We anxiously look forward to the Millennium Assembly, which, beyond its symbolism, could provide a unique opportunity to renew our commitment and rededicate our efforts to the attainment of this goal. It would be inexcusable if we were not strengthened in our resolve to eradicate poverty in the next millennium. With all the global conferences since the beginning of the decade on almost all issues of common concern, a solid foundation has thus been laid. All we have to do is build upon it. It is against this background that we are poised to embrace the third millennium and all that it has in store for us. Caught between the spectre of nuclear holocaust and the overpowering and irrepressible phenomenon of globalization, our only hope for survival depends on how far we are committed to putting our collective security before our narrow, individual national interests. This in turn is only possible through multilateralism, and the latter has proved its worth through the United Nations. Having learned numerous bitter lessons, including the fact of two world wars in this century, the compelling need to create the United Nations to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war is more valid now than ever before, taking into account the rapid advances in military technology and the devastating effects of modern weaponry. Our Organization has withstood the test of time, and as long as we continue individually and collectively to make every effort to uphold the lofty ideals enshrined in the Charter, we can together make this world a better place for all mankind. The United Nations is certainly not irreproachable, but it is definitely irreplaceable and indispensable. It is the embodiment of our hopes and aspirations. This is why we are emboldened in our conviction that, despite some acerbic criticism, we envisage an even greater role for the United Nations in the twenty-first century. It was therefore very timely to adopt the Declaration and Programme of Action on a Culture of Peace shortly before the beginning of this session. In this connection, it is important to carry out reforms when and where necessary to address the Organization's shortcomings. The organ that needs serious and urgent reform more than any other is the Security Council. The importance of this body cannot be over-emphasized, but its present composition, especially at the level of permanent membership, is unacceptable, to say the least. Its composition should reflect the realities of the day and must be democratic and transparent in its working methods. To begin with, it is a fact that Africa, the second largest continent, is not represented at the permanent member level. This anomaly should be rectified immediately; then we can take it from there. Also not acceptable is the veto power wielded by the five permanent members, a practice that is diametrically opposed to the principles of democracy and human rights. I propose that the veto power be abolished during the course of the United Nations reform process. As my country's term on the Security Council draws to an end, I would like to seize this opportunity on behalf of the Government and people of the Gambia, and indeed on my own behalf, to express our sincere gratitude to the entire membership of the United Nations for the confidence reposed in us to represent you. We also thank Members most sincerely for the partnership and cooperation, the advice and support, without which it would not have been possible to carry out the mandate entrusted to us. As a small country, our contribution might have been modest, but it was sincere, in our collective endeavour to make this world a better place for humankind. This noble goal, in my view, is what the United Nations stands for.  It is a particular pleasure to see Mr. Gurirab presiding over the last session of the General Assembly of the twentieth century. I consider myself singularly fortunate and greatly honoured to be representing my country, India, on this occasion. I do believe that, in the many years that he spent here pursuing the dream of independence for his people — which, happily, is now a reality — he, more perhaps than others, has seen the United Nations at its best. That is why the perspective that he brings to the office of the President, enriched as it is by living through the very articles of faith of the United Nations, is near unique. I am sure we will all profit from it. I take this opportunity also to warmly welcome three new Members to the United Nations: Kiribati, Nauru and Tonga. I have no doubt their presence shall enrich our deliberations. Even as I address this Assembly, the century draws to a close and the world prepares to meet the year 2000. It is only appropriate and instructive, therefore, to look back and to reflect upon the journey that humanity set out upon 100 years ago. Where did we think we were then headed and where have we actually reached? Could any then foresee what 1999 would bring? Thus, are there, in the passage of the years that have gone by, any landmarks that could indicate a path for our future? For that, we need to assess the twentieth century, and there is but one yardstick by which we can judge: the criteria of the stated objectives of the United Nations. Indisputably, the twentieth has been the bloodiest of all centuries. But, in contradistinction, it has also been a century of the most profound transformations and of the most significant social, political and technological advancements. This, above all, has been the century of the ascendancy of the individual and of democracy. It is that period in which dynasties vanished and revolutions swept empires off the face of ancient lands. Centuries-old colonialism became history against the irresistible heave of the colonized to reclaim their lands, their souls, so that oppressed humanity could regain a voice, a say in its own political and economic destiny. It is the century in which we plumbed the depths of the oceans and soared into the infinities of space; when man first set foot on the moon, reached Mars and even deeper into the recesses of the unknown. In a wired-up world, the computer has today become what the fountain pen was in the early years of the twentieth century. The revolution of the digital has arrived. Humanity today is healthier, better fed and more sheltered than our forefathers were. But want and hunger, disease and deprivation are still widespread, including in developed societies. We have at our command more information than ever before, but are we that much wiser? Literacy has spread, but is mankind better educated? We are more connected globally, but are we as humankind? Have this linkage and interconnection reduced conflict and animosity? And thus, the tabulation of our assets and liabilities of this century flows. As we have improved upon and added to almost everything that we inherited in 1900, so most sadly have we to violence, too. This century has been the most bloodthirsty, perhaps because it is in these last 100 years that humanity has employed science to perfect means of killing as never before. Our passage has seen us move from the Gatling gun to a world menaced today by MIRVs. That early machine gun, the then-great mower down of the early 1900s, seems today almost a toy by comparison. We have split the atom, but employ the released energy less for peace and more for weapons of unimaginable destruction. Chemical defoliants and sophisticated biological weapons are also this century's contribution. The century that passes experienced not two, but three great wars. Each was a cataclysm, fought globally and at enormous cost. When the first ended, the survivors 39 emerged from the trenches, searching for a better world so that war would not recur. In response, we created the League of Nations. But war, regrettably, was not avoided. The League failed because we failed the League. And thus followed the second great war, at the end of which the world emerged armed with weapons that could destroy all that human genius and ingenuity had created and every vestige of life. But, from the ruins and devastation of the second also emerged the United Nations, with mandates of broader powers and responsibilities. The third great conflict was the cold war. This deeply affected, shaped and influenced the development of the United Nations. This war, too, extracted a heavy price, directly and through proxy conflicts, as well as political and social upheavals, but then these became its epilogue. What significance lies in the observation that no global peace conference has taken place to mark the end of this last war? The United Nations could have been cast anew, made contemporary and democratized, drawing upon our collective experience to tackle new challenges with greater responsiveness. Can we, even now, do something at this last session of the General Assembly of this millennium to correct this? Can we pledge afresh to invest this institution with faith, commitment, political will and the resources that it needs to make it the vehicle capable of realizing the aspirations of all humanity, an instrument that will steer planet Earth into the next century? We do not enjoy an abundance of options. The sapping of the vitality or the diminishing of the centrality of the United Nations must not be permitted. We have but one Earth, and there is but one United Nations. Another development of this century, of crucial significance, is the transformation that we have experienced in the role of the State. From an agency that controlled and regulated all spheres of human activity, we move into a phase wherein the State must become more supportive, caring and encouraging of the citizen's individual and collective endeavours; it must release, not contain, the energies and genius of its people. It would be an error, however, to assume that the days of the State are over. The State continues to have a crucial role and relevance; also, therefore, do national sovereignties. The United Nations was not conceived as a super-State. It will not ever become so, principally because there is no viable substitute for the sovereign State. Even globalization can work only through State intermediaries. To diminish, marginalize or ignore the State would also be bad practice, because the weaker the State is rendered, the less it shall be able to promote the interests of its citizens. The State needs to be strengthened functionally, not weakened. Besides, it is axiomatic that a United Nations of weak nations can only be a weak United Nations. Globalization is an idea that has re-emerged, but also its reverse: fragmentation. The first is politico-economic, the second entirely political. Let us dwell a bit on this. Obviously, the technology that is driving this process can now scarcely be unlearned; the speed of travel and of communications will only increase; the age of the digital, as I said, has dawned. However, though globalization may apparently be driven by impersonal market forces, it is in reality impelled by power seeking political and financial advantage. It is, in essence, a political process, and if history teaches us anything, it is that such processes are not linear. Simply in terms of economic indicators, the world was as globalized at the turn of the century as it is now. A backlash followed: barriers went up, confrontation replaced cooperation and the world jostled into the tensions that led to the first great war. Are we, for the sake of temporary gain, perhaps even unwittingly, repeating yesterday's mistakes? Political hindsight tells us that globalization has to be politically directed for creating equal economic opportunity, both within States and among States. In India, we cherish the creative genius of the people. We believe that Indian excellence lies in the freedom of the individual. We do not subscribe to constricting choice through State impositions. But can free markets offer true freedom of choice to those that are not even a part of the market? That is why the State continues to have the responsibility to protect the needy, to strengthen the weak. That is a part of our democratic creed, too. We note that human rights have been made a cross- cutting theme of the work of the United Nations. That is important. The flowering, however, of human rights requires economic development and growth because many of the deprivations faced by individuals, whether in the developed or in the developing world, are rooted in marginalization created by poverty. We believe, therefore, that development should be the cross-cutting theme of the United Nations and that the multilateral development system, which has been one of its successes, must be strengthened, its focus narrowed to the core challenges of economic growth with social justice, and it must be given the resources it requires to respond to the needs of the developing countries. The international community will find that no investment yields better returns. 40 I have the honour to address the Assembly as a representative of the largest democracy in the world. Even now, as I share these thoughts, an electorate of about 600 million, matching the combined populations of the United States, Canada and Western Europe, is going through the exciting process of democratically electing its next Government in my country. It is an awe-inspiring spectacle, this unstoppable flow of the great Ganga of Indian democracy. It is a democracy whose economy grew by more than 6 per cent last year, even in the aftermath of the major shocks to the international economy brought about by what was described as the East Asian meltdown of the mid- 1990s. We move with the challenges posed by globalization, without either retreating into a “fortress India” or abandoning our social objectives. We have worked out our own answers and devised our own policies to meet these new challenges because we hold that the sheer diversity of mankind dictates differences in approach, in human beings' respective search for relevant alternatives. This is a truth borne out by the fact that the twentieth century has been witness to the detritus of many false certainties. Today, when capital moves without almost any constraint, it is virtually impossible for developing countries to resist either its demands or manage the consequences of its sudden departure. Let us reflect upon the absence of order, system or any global oversight of currency flows, particularly short-term flows, even as we attempt to bring order and equity to trade in goods, services and commodities. But how are we to address the problem when currency, instead of being a vehicle of trade, has in itself become a commodity of trade, when the volume of trade in currency daily has outstripped global trade in goods and services or even global gross national product manifold? If globalization is to benefit all, and as we simply cannot accept that wheels of progress should grind down the common man, then surely some new international regulation, some order, is needed here. Let the United Nations take the initiative to hold an urgent international conference on financing for development. In the political domain, too, managing change demands openness and reasoned discourse, an essential ingredient of which is abjuring violence. That is why terrorism is the very antithesis of all that the United Nations represents and stands for. Terrorism is the great global menace of our age. In this age of democracy, it is a violation of the very basic precepts of it. Because its principal targets become the innocent, it is a crime against humanity, a violation of basic human rights. It is also now a grave threat to international peace and security. That is why I urge that we strengthen the international consensus against terrorism. India has called for a comprehensive international convention against terrorism. We hope to make progress on the issue in this session of the General Assembly. We also know how terrorism uses the international financial system, how it exploits the breakdown of countries and societies, and how it has preyed on the nexus between drugs and the proliferation of small arms. Thus, today, we witness a scimitar of narco-terrorism cutting across the Caucasus to the South Asian subcontinent. Two of the world’s largest sources of illicit drugs flank us. Terrorism financed by drugs has for years been the deadly export of our neighbours. Here the crippling intermixing of cause and effect is cruelly exemplified in Afghanistan. The world has been witness to the decades-old distress of the innocent men, women and children of that country. The disorders of Afghanistan, and the near anarchy into which that country has been pushed, are a consequence, chiefly, of the play of external forces and of a reversion to medieval fundamentalism of the most obscurantist variety. This disorder now overspills; it is also exported. It is not that human rights, particularly of women and children, are routinely violated there; they simply do not exist. Our relationships with this neighbour are ancient and rooted in a past that we share. That is why we urge this Assembly to be seized of the enormous human suffering of the Afghans, and to encourage and support the early formation of a Government truly representative of all sections of that society and country. Terrorism is a menace to which open societies are vulnerable; it becomes particularly difficult for democracies to counter when terrorists are armed, financed and backed by Governments or their agencies, and benefit from the protection of State power. Cross- border terrorism, sponsored from across our borders, has taken the lives of thousands of our citizens and ruined those of countless others. We will counter it, as we have done over the past decades, using the methods available to a democracy. India will defeat such forces. That is both our duty and our obligation to our citizens. Earlier this year India was subjected, yet again, to an act of premeditated aggression. In February this year, hoping yet again to set aside the sterility of relations of 41 the past half century to set the South Asian subcontinent on the path of development, with a view to addressing the real adversaries of our region — poverty, want and hunger — Prime Minister Vajpayee extended a hand of peace, amity and cooperation to neighbouring Pakistan. The pathbreaking bus journey from Delhi to Lahore followed. In Lahore we concluded a triad of agreements, among which was the Lahore Declaration. It was the route chart of moving towards lasting amity and peace. This act of faith was betrayed. Premeditated aggression by regular forces was committed against India. Not simply was the Lahore Declaration violated, but so was the Simla Agreement, which had prevented conflict for more than a quarter of a century. In self-defence, yet with the utmost restraint, India took all necessary and appropriate steps to evict the aggressor forces from its territory. Most regrettably, this aggression has set back the Lahore process of peace that we had initiated. For whereas aggression over territory can more easily be vacated, that territory of trust which has been transgressed is infinitely more difficult to restore. Permit me, Sir, to draw attention to the fact that this aggression upon India in Kargil was a demonstration of wanting to hold to ransom the world, through an act of aggression. It was also a manifestation of the larger disorders that the world has been witnessing in Afghanistan. There is an aspect that I stress. It was a gross violation of the Geneva Conventions when Indian soldiers taken prisoner were tortured, subjected to inhuman treatment and killed in captivity. These violations took place at a time when the international community has repeatedly been trying to establish the rule of law, stripping away the layers of impunity that have protected those who give the orders that lead to violations of international humanitarian law. And it is thus that I find it necessary to reiterate some essential verities of Indian nationhood. From the earliest days of our struggle against imperialism and colonial rule it has been an unquestionable article of faith with us that India is one nation: a nation of many faiths, a diversity of beliefs, a cultural harmony arranged through the interplay of myriad forms and manifestations, but a unity, strengthened by its pluralism, that is beyond question. And of this is born India’s democratic vitality, too. Also of this oneness and unity, the Indian State of Jammu and Kashmir is an integral part, and shall remain so. Because this is not any territorial dispute; it is the assertion of two antipodal approaches to national identity. India has never represented denominational nationhood; it is civic nationalism to which we subscribe. That is why Jammu and Kashmir is not a so-called core issue. It is at the very core of Indian nationhood. Yet the path of the India-Pakistan composite dialogue process is open. No preconditions attend it. The only essential ingredient that remains is an abjuring of violence and cross-border terrorism, principles that are integral to both the Simla Agreement and the Lahore Declaration — indeed, the very process of peace itself. This process needs to be resumed. We have been greatly disappointed by this compulsive hostility of Pakistan, because it is an aberration in our region today, where all the other South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) countries are at peace with each other, and are trying, bilaterally and through the SAARC mechanisms, to tackle together the great challenge of development. But we remain unshaken in our vision of cooperation and shared prosperity of the South Asian region, as embedded in the Charter of SAARC, as well as in our faith in the ability, talent and will of the people of the region to take their rightful place in the world community. The destiny of all our peoples is linked. It is a region with a collective history reaching back to the beginnings of human history and of the highest civilizational accomplishments. In striving to attain the promise of the future in our region, we also see the recovery of a great past. This is perhaps the right juncture at which to say a few words about pluralism in an age of globalization. Though we find sterile the debate over universal and regional values, extreme positions are still taken on both sides. In a spirit of engagement, we would urge our partners in the West to be a bit more tolerant, and a bit more introspective. While all democratic Governments try to promote good governance, human rights and social responsibility, the perspective they approach them from, and their ability to implement them, vary. Rigidly applying, as a universal paradigm, value systems that reflect the state of western economies and societies in the late twentieth century, produces an inevitable reaction, which does not make either for dialogue or constructive decisions. Globalization has also influenced our thinking on security issues by generating a greater awareness about new security concerns. Equally important, with the end of the cold war there is a growing realization that peace cannot be maintained through balance of power or hegemonic order. To maintain global peace and security, 42 to deal with threats of a global nature, the international community has to accept the concept of collective security. The United Nations provides a framework for such a contract among nations. With the cold war behind us, the General Assembly should reactivate this framework. Global nuclear disarmament was the objective set out by the 1946 General Assembly in the first resolution that it adopted. That objective still beckons us. I say this as the representative of a country that has been obliged to acquire nuclear weapons because of the failure of the existing non-proliferation regime to address our primary security concerns. Yet let me also state with full conviction that India’s commitment to global nuclear disarmament stands undiluted. India is the only nuclear- weapon State ready to negotiate a nuclear weapons convention that will prohibit for ever the development, production, stockpiling, use and threat of use of nuclear weapons and provide for the elimination of all existing weapons under international verification. If this can only be a step-by-step process, the first step at a technical level is for all countries possessing nuclear weapons to take measures that will reduce the dangers of, and provide added safeguards against, any unintended or accidental use. Coupled with this is the political step of reorienting nuclear doctrines, towards no-first-use, and then non-use, thus delegitimizing nuclear weapons globally. Independent expert opinion across the globe has spoken strongly in favour of such measures. In fact, every single study that has been published since the end of the cold war on the measures to achieve a nuclear-weapon-free world has highlighted the need for shifting to doctrines based on no-first-use and non-use, and technical measures towards de-alerting, as the inevitable first steps in the process. We have taken initiatives to urge the international community forward on both counts, and hope that in this General Assembly session the Indian initiatives will receive the unanimous support that they merit. Last year my Prime Minister declared in this Assembly that India was engaged in discussions on a range of issues, including the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT). These discussions are in process and will be resumed by the newly- elected Government of my country. Our position remains consistent. We remain ready to bring these discussions to a successful conclusion. Naturally, this requires the creation of a positive environment as we work towards creating the widest possible consensus domestically. We also expect that other countries will adhere to this Treaty without any conditions. Notwithstanding India’s readiness to engage in constructive negotiations on a treaty to prohibit the future production of fissile materials for nuclear weapons and nuclear explosive devices, the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva has so far, sadly, been unable to register any forward movement. This, too, is something to ponder over, for we all know that a fissile material cut-off treaty (FMCT) can only contribute to our shared objective as part of a step-by-step process. Let us then overcome this reluctance and agree to look beyond the FMCT. So, at the end of this centennial audit, what is it that we would want the United Nations to do in the first few years? It is clear that there are two major problems facing the United Nations as an institution: Security Council reform and the United Nations financial crisis. These need to be addressed. The Security Council must be made more representative, with developing countries inducted as permanent members, to reflect the changes in the United Nations membership and today’s political realities. As we said earlier, on any objective criteria, India’s credentials for permanent membership are persuasive. Sustainable and environmentally sound development is a goal to which India continues to attach the utmost importance. In 2002 we will complete a decade of Agenda 21, adopted at the Rio Earth Summit in 1992. I trust that the current session of the General Assembly will put in place a preparatory process for the “Rio + 10” review. This will enable the Member States to take stock of the implementation of the commitments undertaken by the Member States in Agenda 21 over the past decade. Such a process is vital for attaining our common goal of sustainable and environmentally sound development. This century has shown us that our challenges are common; they are intertwined. Problems flow across boundaries, they batten on each other. Political, security, economic and social challenges are braided around each other; when they form a knot, that has to be cut by all of us together. Here, and nowhere else, can we do this. It is convenient to look at security issues in the First Committee, at economic issues in the Second, at human rights and social issues in the Third, and so on, but we often do not see them together, and so fail to use the United Nations as we should. May I, in conclusion, therefore, propose that in the next decade the United Nations endeavour to address the most urgent problems that face us today. We have to do this as a unity of nations, as also of issues, for it is evident that solutions in one field will depend on, or be 43 facilitated by, progress in another. Without tackling them together we will fail to address them at all. Therefore, may I urge the Assembly to consider the following areas for action in the opening years of the next decade: an international conference on financing for development; binding, irreversible steps to reduce the dangers of use of nuclear weapons; reform and expansion of the Security Council; a comprehensive convention against terrorism; and strengthening of the United Nations development system in this era of globalization. I leave you with a sloka from the Rigveda. Though written 5,000 years ago, it reaches across time to us as at this session of the General Assembly, in the last year of the twentieth century. In translation, it reads, “Be of one heart, one mind and free of hate. Let your aim be common, your assembly common, United your mind and thoughts; May you make your resolutions with one mind, Perform your duties righteously. Let our hearts be together”.  The delegation of Peru is greatly pleased, Sir, at your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session, especially since Peru was an active participant in Namibia’s independence process, which was advanced by the United Nations. As the first speaker at this morning’s meeting I am particularly pleased to congratulate you and the other officers of the General Assembly. The arrival of the new millennium is a great historic opportunity to initiate an era of peace, progress and well- being, from which no people on Earth should be excluded. That requires a greater commitment on the part of the international community to create conditions that will enable developing nations properly to channel their own energy and potential with a view to achieving comprehensive national development. At the height of the twentieth century, the majority of the world’s peoples remain mired in the social, cultural and technological conditions of the nineteenth century — or even of earlier centuries. We shall be able truly to speak of a new era only if our aspirations for the twenty- first century and the third millennium become tangible reality for those peoples and if those peoples succeed in fulfilling their own legitimate aspirations: in other words, if a globalized world can globalize well-being and dignity. The conversion of our economies to adapt them to globalization has social costs which we can bear provided that this process assures us a future of development and well-being, not one of additional frustrations. Such frustrations could arise if our national economies, rather than growing stronger, are weakened by economic opening based on unequal or unjust terms of trade. The reaction, which no one wishes to see, could be a return to defeated economic ideas. In speaking of my own country, Peru, I can say that, like other peoples, it inherited a heavy burden of injustice and backwardness, but it also has an extraordinary future- looking calling that has made it possible over the past 10 years for our country to become an emerging economy. That future-looking calling has enabled us to defeat the totalitarian, terrorist designs of the Shining Path and of the Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement. It was the latter group that seized the residence of the Japanese Ambassador in 1996. The destructive capacity of such criminal activity is on the increase thanks to access to new technology, and today it threatens every region and every continent. If it is not duly stopped, it will undoubtedly become the nightmare of the twenty-first century. Both internal and external peace are essential for the coming of the new era that we are championing. In 1998, Peru and Ecuador were at a crossroads: either to pursue the path of armed conflict, the situation typical of the entire century, which has led to the destruction of peoples; or to follow the path of peace, the only possibility for development. Peru and Ecuador chose peace. The 1998 peace agreement between Peru and Ecuador was the product of two equally important factors: the political will of two Governments taken to its ultimate conclusion; and the capacities, energy and awareness of two peoples determined to overcome old prejudices and work towards a future of development. Ecuador and Peru intend to reach the twenty-first century without the baggage of the nineteenth. Peace has opened up possibilities for the development of Peru and of Ecuador thanks to savings in resources once earmarked for defence, and it has shown again that Latin America is a mature region that rejects warlike tension. But tranquility in our region has been disturbed by the alliance of drug trafficking and terrorism. In some cases, these criminal activities have created power sufficient to challenge States as well as to upset the world economy: illicit drug money may have infiltrated productive, commercial and even political activities. Terrorism and drug trafficking therefore represent a threat to modern society and to good governance. In general terms, poverty, terrorism, drug trafficking and racial discrimination are the main barriers to our glimpsing the new era that as civilized peoples we propose to reach. Our task and our commitment is to overcome these obstacles with firm political will if we want this transitional period in which we live to mark the threshold of a new era for mankind. The concepts of democracy and fairness must prevail. It is important to promote democracy within countries, but also to promote it between countries and between peoples. Democracy applies not only to the internal structure of States, but also to the international relations that will determine the fate of the world. Human rights raised to their maximal power and highest expression are the rights of peoples, and all peoples have a right to the future.   Guinea-Bissau is gratified, Sir, at your assumption of the presidency of the fifty- fourth session of the General Assembly. The unanimous election of a distinguished African diplomat such as yourself to this post is evidence of the conviction of the Member States of the Organization that, under your clear- sighted leadership, our work is certain to be successful. Your election is also a concrete expression of Secretary- General Kofi Annan's dedication to the cause of peace, as well as a recognition of Namibia's significant contribution to international peace-building. We pay tribute also to your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, for the great sensitivity and skill he displayed in fulfilling his duties during the fifty-third session. We would like also to express, on behalf of the people of Guinea-Bissau and on my own behalf, our gratitude to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his efforts towards international peace and security. 8 Guinea-Bissau also welcomes the new States Members of the United Nations — Kiribati, Nauru and Tonga — with which we intend to maintain relations of friendship and cooperation. On the eve of the new millennium, Africa is experiencing an increase in armed conflict that threatens regional peace and stability. Regrettably, West Africa has not been spared this scourge. From the Liberian crisis to that of Sierra Leone, not to mention Guinea-Bissau, our region has been racked by periods of fratricidal violence whose causes are manifold. In the case of our country, the root causes of the political and military crisis include a lack of effectiveness and a loss of authority on the part of the State; poor management; human rights violations; non-compliance with the principle of the separation of power between sovereign bodies; corruption and deteriorating living conditions; and total frustration and despair on the part of those who fought for freedom and their homeland. The events of 7 June 1998 were a direct result of these problems. Unfortunately, as is the case in every conflict, the crisis also resulted in a tragic situation for the population that included the loss of life, a massive flow of refugees to neighbouring countries and large numbers of displaced persons, not to mention the devastation of the economic and social infrastructure of the country. Having experienced the horrors of war, the people of Guinea-Bissau today more than ever strongly aspire to live in peace and security, with hope for the future and in the full enjoyment of their fundamental rights. Guinea-Bissau also wishes to consolidate its unity and to promote a culture of peace and national reconciliation that is based on a pluralist democracy with sound governance and on the rule of law. We are determined to promote and protect the dignity of human beings and to enable their harmonious development. In this regard, we are pleased to note that a conference was convened recently in Guinea-Bissau for the reconciliation and unity of the people of our country. That event of rare scope raised the awareness of our fellow citizens and mobilized them with respect to national peace and reconciliation, which is a prerequisite for domestic security and socio-economic progress. The conference also received direct support from, among others, Sweden, the Netherlands and the representative of the United Nations Secretary-General. All of Guinea-Bissau's vital elements participated, including political parties, non-governmental organizations, the Government, the military junta and our nationals living abroad. We take this opportunity to affirm that we will spare no effort in working to consolidate the emerging democracy in Guinea-Bissau, basing ourselves on the social and cultural values of our people and on the principles of good relations as set out in the Charter of the United Nations and that of the Organization of African Unity, in order to bring about a lasting peace in our country. In this context, we will be holding legislative and presidential elections on 28 November, preceded by a census and the registration of electoral candidates. We would like to reaffirm before the Assembly our determination to hold the elections as scheduled, despite the slow response time of some of our partners in development with respect to the commitments entered into at the round table held in Geneva on 4 and 5 May. We would like also express our heartfelt thanks to Sweden, Portugal and the Netherlands for fulfilling their commitments in a timely manner. We take this opportunity to launch an urgent appeal to the international community to support Guinea-Bissau in its efforts to return to constitutional order, which is a prerequisite for restoring normal relations of cooperation with its development partners. It is also important to underscore our very positive relations with the peoples of the subregion, in particular with Senegal, and our desire to renew our fraternal ties of cooperation with the Republic of Guinea in order to help consolidate peace and stability in the subregion. Despite the progress we have made in the struggle for human dignity and freedom, the vast majority of humankind lives in degrading conditions that are unacceptable to the collective conscience. This situation is the result of selfish interests that go against the moral and political values of the United Nations. The example of East Timor is a case in point. With regard to East Timor, we are deeply concerned by the fact that after the popular consultation, whose outcome was favourable to the Maubere people, we witnessed very violent acts which were completely at odds with the agreement of 5 May between Indonesia, 9 Portugal and the United Nations. We express our fraternal solidarity with the heroic people of East Timor in the face of the genocide carried out by Indonesian militias. We condemn those acts and demand respect for the desire for self-determination expressed in the popular consultation of 30 August last. We welcome the strong — albeit late — reaction of the international community aimed at restoring peace and security in that territory. We appeal for efforts to be intensified and call for technical, material and financial aid for the rebuilding of East Timor, which has been brutally destroyed. Guinea-Bissau supports the international community, the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity in their ceaseless search for a peaceful solution to the problems affecting our continent. In this context, the situation in Angola is of great concern for our country. The civil war has imposed great suffering on the majority of the population of Angola, especially those in the most vulnerable sectors. This situation requires vigorous action on the part of the international community to restore lasting peace in that neighbouring country. Guinea-Bissau demands that UNITA unconditionally abide by the Lusaka Protocol so as to put an end to this long and painful conflict in that fraternal country. In the Middle East, the peace process between Israel and Palestine deserves our utmost attention. In this regard, we note with satisfaction the positive development in relations between Israel and Palestine under the impetus provided by the President of the Palestinian Authority, Yasser Arafat, and the Israeli Prime Minister, Ehud Barak. In Latin America, we hope that the economic and trade embargo against Cuba will soon be lifted. We believe that the realism of the international community must prevail so as to spare the Cuban people the suffering that they continue to endure. While it is true that peace and security are an indispensable condition for social and economic development, it is no less true that improving people's living conditions is one of the foundations of social and political stability. However, one of the obstacles to pursuing those objectives is our country's external debt. That is why the external debt burden is a matter of constant concern for Guinea-Bissau. In this context, we welcome the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative. We also welcome the decisions taken at the G-7 summit recently held in Cologne. We take this opportunity to pay a warm tribute to all the organizations in the United Nations system working in our country for their substantial contribution not only to consolidating national peace and reconciliation but to alleviating the suffering of our people. We also welcome the decision to appoint Mr. Samuel Nana-Sinkam as Special Representative of the Secretary-General to head the United Nations Peace-building Support Office in Guinea-Bissau, whose activities are greatly appreciated by our people. We believe that we have made sufficiently clear our determination to hold elections on the scheduled date, 28 November 1999. However, we know that democracy does not end with elections. Support for the special emergency programme for Guinea-Bissau is therefore absolutely necessary in order to ensure that the democratic gains are irreversible and to give sustained development in our country a chance. That is why we take this opportunity to appeal once more to the international community not only to take an interest in the elections but also to support the determined efforts of Guinea-Bissau to build its future.I wish to convey to my friend Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab how proud and happy I am to see a son of Africa leading the General Assembly into the new millennium. I congratulate him warmly. I am certain that his experience, gained as the representative of the South-West Africa People’s Organization to the United Nations and in the course of a long diplomatic career, will help him resolve the complex issues facing the Assembly at this session. This is an honour for him and for the African continent. I wish also to convey my congratulations to the other officers of the General Assembly. The President may rest assured that my delegation is ready to work with him for the success of the work of the Assembly at this session. I wish also to convey to the President of the Assembly at its fifty-third session, His Excellency Mr. Didier Opertti of Uruguay, our thanks for the quality of the work carried out under his presidency. I pay heartfelt tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and reaffirm the appreciation of Côte d’Ivoire for the unflagging and able way in which he is fulfilling the mandate entrusted to him. My delegation welcomes the three new Members of the Organization: the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. On the eve of the new millennium, the Organization must adapt to the new shape of international relations in order to increase its effectiveness in all areas, including that of the maintenance of international peace and security. Every passing day reveals the dysfunction of international society. Nearly 10 years after the euphoria born of the end of ideological confrontation, we have yet to put in place machinery for political, economic and financial controls that could lead to the peaceful world evoked by the 1945 Charter. On the threshold of the twenty-first century, we are obliged to say that might continues to prevail over right, that hotbeds of war continue to proliferate, that individual rights are often flouted, and that a large part of mankind has only a remote idea of social progress. Yet the 1945 Charter remains timely; all that is lacking is the full implementation of the great principles it articulates. The faith of peoples in the United Nations remains intact. This obliges us to make a sustained effort to increase its credibility and strengthen its capacity to meet the challenges it faces. For a number of years the Organization has been engaged in renewal. Working groups have been established to reform the main structures of the United Nations and adapt them better to the new international context. The Secretary-General himself is involved in this effort, in part by initiating reforms within his areas of responsibility. It is now up to us, the Member States, to work together to complete the process in the months to come. We hope that the Millennium Summit planned for September 2000 will launch the United Nations into the twenty-first century. It is therefore of great urgency that the plan to enlarge the Security Council be completed. 30 There can be no doubt that by increasing the number of both permanent and non-permanent members, among which Africa will have to have its rightful place, we will also be remedying the lack of political visibility from which the Council has been suffering. The Kosovo crisis revealed the necessity of reaffirming the primacy of the Security Council and hence that of the United Nations. Confirming the authority of the Security Council must by no means imply a reduced role for the General Assembly. This body, whose representative nature lends it great legitimacy, must be at the heart of the system, with all that this implies for its ability to set the overall course of the United Nations. But such institutional reform can be effective only if all States meet their financial obligations. By reiterating the validity of the principles of the Charter at the dawn of a new millennium, we commit ourselves to guaranteeing international peace and security for succeeding generations. For the past two years the Organization has been paying particular attention to the conflicts besetting Africa. In his report to the Security Council of 13 April 1998 (S/1998/318), the Secretary-General identified the many causes of these conflicts. He reviewed the ways to promote peace, the most important of which is a development policy that can eradicate the seeds of violence. For their part, African States are making every effort to acquire machinery enabling them to avert conflict situations or, if necessary, to act. Convinced that war is not inevitable and that the keys to peace are at hand so long as the political will exists, the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) has unanimously declared the restoration of peace on the continent to be its priority activity for the years to come. But let us not delude ourselves: that goal will be met only if the international community, as embodied by the United Nations, is mobilized and if it firmly supports Africa’s efforts. It is not my intention to disregard all that has been done by friendly countries — the United States, France, the United Kingdom, Japan and Canada, to name but a few — to explore new ways to promote peace and security in Africa and to strengthen Africa’s capacity in that regard. Let me recall the establishment in my own country, at Zambakro, of a military training centre specializing in peacekeeping techniques, which is open to all African States. Nor can I fail to mention the initiatives taken by the United Nations where the scourge of war is at its horrific worst, such as in Sierra Leone, or where it wantonly flays its victims, such as in Guinea-Bissau or in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The Ceasefire Agreement for the Democratic Republic of the Congo, signed at Lusaka on 10 July 1999, to which all the factions of the Congolese Rally for Democracy have now subscribed, owes a great deal to the perseverance of the Secretary-General and to the persuasive labours of his Special Envoy. To help our continent escape the spiral of violence, the United Nations has acted at every stage of crises, combining its efforts with those of the OAU and of other regional and subregional organizations. Based on its success in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the United Nations has experimented in the Central African Republic with a preventive peacekeeping mission, which has thus far been achieving its objectives. The Organization has thus prevented that country from beginning a descent into the hell that the repeated mutinies of 1996 and 1997 seemed to prefigure and the political and social tension that followed. I am particularly pleased to say this because my country has sent a 235-member contingent consisting of a medical unit, an armoured squadron and members of the general staff. Even though it is more complex in terms of the many issues in its subregion, the work of the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO) is also praiseworthy. It has made it possible to build a momentum for dialogue that will ultimately prevail over the passions and divisiveness that have long been a source of conflict: this is no mean achievement. Côte d’Ivoire welcomes developments in the situation in the Middle East, including recent steps taken by the Prime Minister of Israel, Mr. Ehud Barak, and by President Yasser Arafat with a view to implementing a just and fair peace that would protect the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people and Israel’s right to existence within secure and recognized boundaries. I would be remiss if I did not mention all that has been done to strengthen cooperation in peacekeeping with the OAU, as well as with the Economic Community of West African States and the Southern African Development Community. We must welcome the fact that the United Nations seems gradually to be overcoming the Somalia syndrome that led it to reduce its commitments. 31 The prospect of the Organization’s soon deploying a peacekeeping force of 20,000 for the implementation of the Lusaka agreement in the Democratic Republic of the Congo is certainly a harbinger of an increased effort of the international community to restore peace and security in Africa. But we should take care that this hope not be dashed, thereby strengthening the feeling, widely held in African public opinion, that our continent is subject to discriminatory treatment as compared with other regions of the world. What was possible in Kosovo should also be possible in Angola, Congo and Sierra Leone. The reference to the values of democracy and human rights that served as a catalyst for the large-scale action in Kosovo is equally applicable to African populations. I am fully aware of the reluctance of the great Powers to become involved in complex conflicts whose local protagonists are often difficult to identify and tend to compete with one another, at very great humanitarian cost. Certainly, political prerequisites, especially in the form of ceasefire agreements, are necessary for the deployment of peacekeeping forces, but they are not insurmountable when the Security Council makes use of all the resources offered by the Charter. The breathing of new life into the principle of peacekeeping operations through the provision of credible deterrent elements and resources should not absolve us of reviewing or of clarifying Chapter VIII on cooperation between the United Nations and regional arrangements. Too many uncertainties remain on the scope and modalities of such cooperation and the role that falls to the Security Council in this regard. The Kosovo crisis and military intervention under the auspices of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization have only increased our doubts and questions in this connection. The promotion of the regional approach to collective security should in no way serve as a pretext for the Security Council’s lack of involvement. By reiterating the validity of the principles of the Charter at the dawn of a new millennium, we commit ourselves to establishing better living conditions for future generations, including all the children of Africa. Africa, of course, has little weight in world economic statistics, but it does have a potential on which the future of humankind will largely depend. It must participate fully in efforts to build a new world financial architecture. It is also important that, on the eve of major trade negotiations under the aegis of the World Trade Organization, the interests of the developing countries not be sacrificed on the altar of globalization. I welcome the efforts of the Secretariat to strengthen the resources available for development and to harmonize the activities of various United Nations agencies. It was to that end that a development group was established to bring together the various operational bodies, including the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Children’s Fund and the United Nations Population Fund. The result has been improved streamlining of activities, more consistent management of aid and simplified procedures for funding projects. This represents progress that we can only welcome by paying a heartfelt tribute to the coordination of the assistance provided by UNDP, particularly by its resident representatives. But this satisfaction cannot calm the anxiety provoked by the continued decline of official development assistance, which the statistics of the past decade show to be precipitous. Official development assistance has now fallen to below 0.2 per cent of gross national product. We welcome the initiatives taken last June in Cologne at the summit of the G-8. These attest to a desire to increase assistance to developing countries, especially through significant debt alleviation. The cancellation of part of the debt of the developing countries, against the prospect of the opportunity for these countries to relaunch their investment policies, should allow for harmonization and coordination of the activities of the major international financial institutions. The multilateral framework will also offer the advantage of avoiding direct dealings between a given country and aid providers, which experience has often shown to be a source of misunderstandings that may hamper the smooth functioning of national economies. However, decisions taken by the richest countries for reducing debt are likely to create disparities among the countries concerned, depending on what category they belong to. The definition of these categories may rely on economic criteria that, by definition, are extremely inflexible. The question of debt is of grave concern to African countries, which, at the Fourth Extraordinary Summit of the OAU in Syrte, instructed the current OAU Chairman, Mr. Abdelaziz Bouteflika of Algeria, and President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa to negotiate with creditors with a view to achieving a total cancellation of African debt. We hope that this mission, led by a head of State, will soon achieve success. 32 At the dawn of the new millennium, it is urgent that we define a global development assistance strategy and guarantee its financing. We therefore support the convening of a world conference on development financing to set precise objectives and emphasize support for education and social projects without, however, neglecting the industrial and agricultural sectors. I would make a solemn appeal to all donor countries to reverse the current trend and to increase their contributions to the United Nations system in general, and to UNDP in particular, so as to enable them to pursue their activities on behalf of our countries. I would ask these donors to base their actions not on short-term economic interests, but on solidarity. By reiterating the validity of the principles of the Charter at the dawn of the new millennium, we commit ourselves to restoring dignity to every human being, because nothing is lasting if it is not based on mankind. I wish here to express my Government’s satisfaction with the activities of the United Nations and its two specialized Programmes, the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS and the United Nations International Drug Control Programme, in our countries. The campaigns against these pandemics, especially that of HIV/AIDS, and endemic diseases, as well as the struggle against narcotics and drugs, are designed to end these two scourges, which directly threaten the individual and upset social stability. At the International Conference on HIV-AIDS and Sexually Transmitted Diseases, held in Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire, from 7 to 11 December 1997, Côte d’Ivoire and France proposed the establishment of a solidarity fund to mobilize the international community. At the suggestion of Côte d’Ivoire, this proposal was taken up by the OAU last June in Ouagadougou. The actions undertaken by President Henri Konan Bédié, especially to protect and manage forests, develop and manage coastal areas, improve the water supply and adopt a water code demonstrate our concern to preserve human health and to protect the environment. For several years now and in the context of more sustained economic growth, most African States have opted for political pluralism and the consolidation of the rule of law. These are the counterparts of improved economic and financial management through internationally recognized criteria of good governance. Much remains to be done and the situation varies from one region to another and even from one country to another. But the progress that has been achieved should be taken into account in major international negotiations. In particular, we must never lose sight of the fact that violence is born of poverty. Anything that can help to eradicate the latter is a source of hope to millions of men and women. An Africa in peace and committed to the path of development is the best guarantee of a better world. This Africa must be united and free of small arms, trafficking and rivalry. It must be united. An Africa at peace and on the road of development, is the best guarantee for a better world. Such an Africa must be united and free from arms — particularly small arms — trafficking and greed. Above all, it must be united. During the OAU summit in Algiers, Heads of State and Government proclaimed their faith in the integration of the continent enshrined in instruments such as the Lagos Plan of Action for the Implementation of the Monrovian Strategy for the Economic Development of Africa, the Final Act of Lagos and the Abuja Treaty established by the African Economic Community. Africa now realizes that time is not on its side; it is faced with rapid globalization, whose effects do not always seem to be in Africa's favour. With this awareness, the fourth special Summit of OAU Heads of State and Government, meeting on 9 September 1999 in Sirte, Libya, decided to create an African Union and a Pan-African Parliament. Next year, another special session will be held, also in Sirte, to adopt the text establishing the Union. For Africa can continue to exist only if the African Union becomes a true Power. Côte d'Ivoire, keeping faith with this commitment, has started taking action to strengthen the existing subregional integration machinery, within the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). Within WAEMU we have already established policies to harmonize tax rates, price statistics, with a regional stock market and transferable securities. All these actions by Côte d'Ivoire, instigated by President Henri Konan Bédié, have no other purpose than to contribute to internal peace, peace in Africa and peace between Africa and the rest of the world. They are designed to buttress greater solidarity and to seek a more just world, with progress and happiness for each and every one of us. 33 The millennium summit will afford world leaders an opportunity to reiterate their commitment to the fundamental principles of the United Nations Charter, which urges us to unite our strength to maintain international peace and security and to employ international machinery for the promotion of the economic and social advancement of all peoples, because the principles set forth in the Charter — dignity, the value of the individual, equality including gender equality and equality between nations — are immutable. They cannot be changed. They are absolute. It is up to us to act, and we must do so, for action is the very essence of politics. Let us therefore work together to make real these noble objectives of a better future for us all.The Republic of Haiti finds it a source of genuine satisfaction that the fifty-fourth regular session of the General Assembly is being presided over by Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, a man for whom we have a great deal of admiration. With positive results, he has competently and responsibly served his country, Namibia, which is quite rightly considered one of the symbols of the success of our Organization. We take this opportunity to wish him every success in the tremendous and noble task he has undertaken. We pay tribute to Mr. Didier Opertti, Foreign Minister of Uruguay, who so effectively conducted the proceedings of the fifty-third session. We also take this opportunity to convey our most sincere greetings to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, who, at a time when our world is facing many challenges, has known how to use his intelligence and the wisdom of his great experience to help the community of nations face up to the inevitable changes of the twenty-first century. We also welcome, with great satisfaction, the admission of the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tanga as full-fledged Members of our Organization. They will strengthen the universal nature of the Organization and enrich its diversity of points of view. We take the floor this 1 October, one day after the anniversary of the bloody coup d’état of 1991, a genuine act of assassination of democracy and of the dream of an entire people. Without the determined action of the United Nations and its Members, contemplating this sad and deadly event would have been even more painful for the people of Haiti today. We would therefore like to express once again our gratitude to the international community for having ensured the restoration of democratic constitutional order in Haiti. Since that restoration of democracy, the Government and the people of Haiti, helped by the international community, have worked zealously to ensure an environment favourable to the blossoming of democracy and economic progress. This effort has not yet yielded the results we had hoped for, because over the last five years the Republic of Haiti has had to confront problems arising from the complexity of its situation. But through the will of our people and its Government, the Haitian dream of democracy will become a reality. Above all, the Government of the Republic is still convinced of the critical importance of the renewal of its institutions, in particular of the Parliament, most of whose members had their term of office expire on 11 January 1999. To this end, fair, honest, democratic elections will be organized in the next few months. The head of State, Mr. René Préval, has repeatedly and solemnly affirmed his determination to create the conditions to make it possible for the elections to be organized by the Provisional Electoral Council. Of course, as guarantor of the functioning of the institutions, the President of the Republic has considered that the most important thing is the establishment of the physical conditions necessary for well-organized elections, rather than hasty elections the results of which might be called into question because of organizational shortcomings. For President Préval, the holding of the elections must lead to a solution to our crisis and not its perpetuation, or even the creation of yet another crisis. In order to work to consolidate its achievements, the Government hopes that a consensus will be found to continue technical assistance for professionalizing the National Police, in strict compliance with Haitian law. The Government of the Republic wants to avoid any interruption of the effort to thoroughly reform the judicial system and to promote full respect for all dimensions of human rights. 18 The fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly is undoubtedly a highly symbolic moment. As the last session of this century, it ought to come up with a vision that would make our Organization an essential and efficient instrument for meeting the challenges that await us in the twenty-first century. We know the contours of this vision, as they were sketched after the Stockholm Conference on the Human Environment, the World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen and the Rio Earth Summit. The sketch is filled in by the ideal of the peoples of the whole world, as expressed in our Charter: to save future generations from the scourge of war, to ensure respect for fundamental human rights, to promote social progress and to establish better conditions of living in greater freedom. Thus, our task at this fifty-fourth session should be to fully work out, by means of our discussions and the work of the various committees, the concept and ways of implementing this vision. The fifty-fourth session will also be an opportunity for the United Nations to give deeper thought to its mission of ensuring international peace and security and of promoting economic and social development. In this regard, the Republic of Haiti is happy to note that the situation in East Timor is improving following the actions of the international community and its cooperation with the Indonesian authorities. We hope that the presence of the multinational peace force will help bring the country out of the chaos into which it has been plunged. We urge the Indonesian Government and its allies in East Timor to fully respect the decision of the ballot box and to take measures to ensure East Timor’s peaceful transition to independence and democracy. The Republic of Haiti also welcomes the end of the state of war in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The Agreement signed in Lusaka, under the aegis of President Frederick Chiluba, between the protagonists in this conflict is clear evidence that Africa is in the process of providing itself with the means to become master of its diplomatic and geographical destiny. The Republic of Haiti calls upon India and Pakistan to do everything possible to find a permanent solution to the Kashmir conflict and to put an end to their nuclear arms race, which is indeed a frightening process that diverts tremendous financial resources and brainpower to destruction when they could be put at the service of survival and development. Once again the Haitian Government reiterates its condemnation of all forms of terrorist activities that might cause material and human damage. We reaffirm our faith in the fundamental rights of man and in the general principles of international law as the basis of norms that govern the relations among States. In the face of the conflicts that threaten international peace and security, it is reassuring that the Director- General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Mr. Federico Mayor, has had the idea of promoting throughout the world the culture of peace, which is so vital to good relations within and between nations. The promotion of a genuine culture of peace is inseparable from the democratization of the international order. One of the fundamental aspects of this democratization lies in the solution to the question of equitable representation in the Security Council. It is time for this Assembly to reach a consensus on this subject of such crucial importance for the future of our Organization. An equally important point for establishing a genuine culture of peace is the implementation of United Nations resolutions in the realm of international security. Many resolutions have not been implemented when their implementation would be decisive, not only in the context of North-South relations, but also in the context of the indispensable relationships to be developed between States, international institutions and non-governmental organizations. Over the last two months, the Government and the people of Haiti have observed with sadness and helplessness the destruction wreaked and the terrible toll taken by the natural disasters that have struck Turkey, Taiwan, Greece, the Bahamas and the United States. We wish to reiterate to the people of these countries that we share their pain and offer our heartfelt solidarity, having ourselves, unfortunately, experienced such disasters. We take this opportunity to repeat that the Haitian Government is following attentively the evolution of relations between the two countries on the Taiwan Strait. Our Government notes with satisfaction that the two sides are undertaking measures to establish a climate of confidence, respect and prosperity, which will be of the utmost benefit to the peoples who live there. At the dawn of the new millennium, the fight for the elimination of poverty remains one of the most noble tasks of the United Nations system, in order to establish, as we are bidden by our Charter, better living conditions for the human beings living on this earth. 19 President Gurirab recently echoed the feelings of the vast majority of developing countries when he noted that globalization might open the floodgates of competition in such a way that certain States would be wiped off the map. Therefore it is up to the United Nations and to each country to examine attentively the means of remedying the ill effects of globalization on the social and economic structures of every country — and particularly its effects on small developing countries. Certainly globalization has its positive side, bringing human communities closer together politically, socially and culturally. But it must not be used as a pretext for a standardization that might neutralize the diversity that is the very strength of humanity. On the eve of the third millennium what should unite us more than ever, beyond our differences and often highly divergent interests, is the laying down of foundations to bring about the security of all and the elimination of poverty as the initial phase of a planetary process of true sustainable development.   On behalf of the Government and people of Thailand, I extend my warm congratulations to you, Sir, upon your unanimous election to the presidency of the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. I am confident that with your leadership and experience this session will complete its work successfully and set the stage for the Millennium Assembly and the millennium summit next year. I should also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to Mr. Didier Opertti, President of the Assembly at its fifty-third session. My delegation truly appreciates his leadership and his tireless dedication to the heavy responsibilities entrusted to him during the past year. May I on behalf of the Government and people of Thailand congratulate the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga on their admission as new Members of the United Nations, which further reinforces the universal character of the Organization. As we gather on the threshold of the new millennium, we find the United Nations and the international community are still preoccupied with maintaining international peace and security. Yet this is only one of the many purposes of our Organization; to achieving international cooperation in solving international problems of an economic, social, cultural or humanitarian character and in promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all is no less an important goal in our Charter. Invariably, the traditional security paradigm predominates in the discussions and ensuing actions regarding international peace and security. A decade after the end of the cold war, global and regional organizations tend to focus their efforts primarily on traditional security concepts and related tools for solving security problems. In South-East Asia, the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) Regional Forum (ARF), which deals with some aspects of security issues in this traditional sense. But the traditional concepts of security are woefully inadequate to meet the new challenges faced by mankind. The very narrow scope of its definition serves as an intellectual strait-jacket which limits our ability to conceptualize and respond to new threats of our time. This fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly is being conducted under the menacing shadows of the conflicts in Kosovo and East Timor. All of us are preoccupied with the implications and consequences of the ways in which we choose to handle these conflicts. More and more, we in the international community are being faced with conflicts within States, not between or among States, as in the past. Rather than State rights, State interests, State sovereignty, we now have to grapple with the defence of the common good, the protection of rights beyond borders and intervention to promote and safeguard humanitarian ideals and objectives. Our Organization is now being challenged to provide clear guidelines for the collective pursuit of these new lofty goals and this complex agenda. Unless and until we, as the foremost Assembly of mankind, come up with criteria, objective and consensual, the international community will not be able to address the many lurking internal conflicts effectively. The period between now and the millennium summit next September is an opportune time for our collective deliberation on this issue. And I commend the Secretary-General for his leadership role in launching the process of consultation at the beginning of the session. My delegation pledges its full cooperation with him and with all representatives in the Assembly for the successful outcome of this historic search. But let us not forget that before we can protect and promote those common interests, save rights beyond borders and think about intervention on the ground of humanitarian concerns, we have to make sure that we are in agreement about what it is that we must, that we want to, protect and promote. I propose that we should begin to change our traditional, exclusive preoccupation with the security and sovereignty of States to serious consideration on the emerging concept of human security. It is a concept which attempts to take us beyond the traditional meaning of security, by addressing new issues. The scope of what falls within the realm of human security is still not yet well defined, except to place people at the centre of our definition of security. Security is now people-related more than State-related. 10 One interpretation of human security in vogue includes upholding human dignity, protecting and promoting human rights and use of humanitarian law, shielding women, children and non-combatants from the effects of armed conflicts, and combating terrorism. We have also seen concerted action to meet these objectives through joint efforts to eradicate anti-personnel landmines, prevent the proliferation of small arms and struggle against organized crime. This somewhat limited interpretation of human security emphasizes physical protection of the human person, and strives to provide human beings with freedom from fear. This is a step in the right direction. But it is not sufficient. We think human security should be more comprehensive. Can we afford to continue to attach less importance to addressing the social and economic dimensions of human security? Can we honestly enjoy genuine security amidst l.3 billion people who live on less than $1 a day, or another 840 million who remain malnourished? Can we fully enjoy freedom from fear without having freedom from want, which emanates from living in an environment free from infectious disease, illiteracy, poverty, natural disaster and social unrest? If we are to give importance to protecting children from harmful effects during times of war, should we not give equal importance to providing children with basic benefits during times of peace? We cannot turn a blind eye to the need to secure for people their freedom from want. We believe that human beings will begin to enjoy genuine security only if they have a chance to make a living, to be able to stand on their own two feet, to have equal opportunities to develop their livelihoods and to make their own decisions about their own futures. This will not happen so long as people are threatened by socio-economic ills such as poverty, disease, environmental degradation and social vices, including drugs. The need to pursue human security in such a broader and more comprehensive definition is made even more urgent by the multifaceted challenges that we face from unbridled globalization. Granted, globalization has created many important opportunities and benefits, such as the creation of more competitive world markets, which has led to greater efficiencies in production and faster economic growth. But I ask the question: has globalization helped eradicate poverty in the marginalized subregions of the world, or eliminated social and economic inequities even in the developed world? We cannot deny that uncontrolled market forces and unfettered short-term capital flows, to take but a few examples of globalization, have had devastating consequences on our economies, social cohesion, political stability and cultural identity — in many cases for the worse rather than for the better. The events of the recent financial crisis in Asia have brought us face-to-face with the worst consequences of globalization. Millions of adults were unemployed and a large number of children were forced to leave school. But, if anything, the crisis has made us even more determined to meet this challenge, which, though primarily financial in nature, has had immense social consequences. We have learned that the multifaceted nature of the challenge of globalization requires a multifaceted response. In our case, besides the traditional economic reforms and adjustments undertaken, we also sought to focus our efforts on addressing the short-term and long-term threats to the viability and welfare both of individuals and of our society. We therefore give strong priority to promoting the establishment of adequate social safety nets and the development of human resources. This strategy puts people at the centre of our national efforts to bring about our economic revival. I can proudly say that our efforts have finally borne fruit. We have emerged from the crisis more competitive, more resilient and better prepared, economically and socially. At the global level, I firmly believe that to meet the challenges of globalization and take the most advantages from its benefits, we must join hands to promote globalization with a human face. This is not a new idea. Secretary-General Kofi Annan has spoken of it. The United Nations, particularly the United Nations Development Programme, has long been a proponent of this concept. Unfortunately, when it was introduced some years ago, it was still considered an idea far beyond its time. If we still find such a concept revolutionary, we are indeed behind the times. We need to ensure that globalization leads us to, among other things, greater equity among peoples and nations; the easing of social tensions and the strengthening of communities; the inclusion of a greater number of economies as stakeholders and co-partners in the building of the global economy; declining poverty and the reduction of the income gap between the very rich and the very poor; enhanced protection and preservation of our environment; greater protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms; and, perhaps most importantly and very simply, a better life for all peoples. The holding of the tenth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development — UNCTAD X — in Thailand in February 2000 will be an important, defining moment in our quest to promote globalization with a human face. We will consider all these challenges together. We hope to be able to tame the tsunami of globalization and turn it into a benevolent force of reconstruction and equitable distribution of wealth and opportunities, and not the menacing force of destruction and destabilization it has thus far been. I am pleased to report that our preparations for UNCTAD X are going well. I wish to take this opportunity to convey the Thai Government's assurance to all of you in the Assembly that Bangkok will be fully prepared for UNCTAD X in February 2000. Thailand, as the host country, strongly encourages all Member States to consider sending to Bangkok delegations at the highest level possible. Joining hands to promote globalization with a human face is a distinct contribution to promoting human security. The United Nations is already playing a leadership role in realizing this goal at the global level. But the United Nations cannot do it alone. It needs to forge a partnership with the non-governmental sector, especially the private sector and civil society, and with other international organizations. In a sense, our endeavour to define and, indeed, to promote human security has philosophical and practical implications — both positive and negative — for us as sovereign States and for the United Nations as the leading global multilateral Organization. We are embarking on an effort to define what the key role of the United Nations will be in the next millennium. I urge all of us to contribute to this important mission together.  This is the sixth time that I have had the honour to address the General Assembly, and it is a great pleasure for me to be back here in this body. I would, at the outset, like to congratulate Mr. Gurirab warmly on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. Both Liechtenstein and Namibia figure among the younger Members of this Organization, since both our countries were admitted to the United Nations in 1990. The 32 President can count on Liechtenstein's support as he guides the Assembly to fruitful outcomes. I would also like to extend our warm welcome to the Kingdom of Tonga, the Republic of Kiribati and the Republic of Nauru. The general debate is an important opportunity for all of us to take stock, to comment on the state of the Organization, to voice our concerns and, if necessary, dissatisfaction and, most important, to offer constructive thoughts and ideas for the future. At the time when Liechtenstein became a Member of the United Nations, nine years ago, the cold war had just come to an end, and we tried to identify the challenges and opportunities created by the new situation. The hopes and expectations were high, the concerns and problems manifold. It was clear to many of us that our Organization was not fully equipped to face the upcoming challenges, and, indeed, mistakes have happened along the way. Today, we can say that the somewhat perverse order of the cold war has been replaced by the era of globalization. Some of us welcome this new era, some of us fear it. However different our opinions, there can and should be one common denominator: that we acknowledge the arrival of this new era and that we join our forces to face its challenges. Globalization has two faces: it offers a potential, from which — if properly explored — mankind as a whole can benefit. It also contains risks, especially for those who are already in a perilous position. In order to be able to face these two enormous tasks efficiently, we have to work together, because that is the only way for us to succeed. The United Nations is the sole forum that is of truly global range, and thus it offers the only opportunity for us to address these issues — assuming we are equipped with the right tools. The past years have been characterized by important and far-reaching reform efforts. The challenges of globalization make further measures necessary, such as the enhanced inclusion, participation and accountability of non- State actors. In a globalized world, such actors play increasingly influential roles, both positive and negative. Persons and organizations that constitute significant economic forces have to be involved in our considerations and decision-making processes. Actors such as terrorists and parties to internal armed conflicts have to be held accountable for their actions and for the consequences thereof. The public at large often mistakenly equates the United Nations with the work of only the Security Council. This is factually wrong, and we should use every opportunity to inform people worldwide about the wide range of activities carried out by our Organization and its specialized agencies. But we also have to bear in mind the immense importance of the work of the Council and must have a certain appreciation of why the public focuses only on the Council's work, erroneous as this approach may be. It is simply a fact that the credibility of the United Nations depends to a very large extent on the credibility of the work of the Security Council. This credibility has suffered serious blows in the recent past, and we cannot afford to ignore the root causes of the problem. We have to address the existing problems and to design ways and means to avoid further, perhaps irreversible, damage. Strict observance of the key provisions of the Charter is one essential element in this respect, and reform of the Security Council is another. For a long time we have talked about all aspects of such a reform, including the composition of the Council. The moment has come for us to recognize that the question of the veto is at the core of every credible and sustainable Security Council reform. My country has long expressed concern about the situation in Kosovo and has asked for preventive efforts in order to avoid an escalation of this situation. In solidarity with the victims and wanting to take some responsibility for them, Liechtenstein has given temporary shelter to a large number of Kosovar refugees, has participated in the provision of humanitarian assistance, in particular through the relevant United Nations agencies, and has expressed full support to the United Nations Mission in Kosovo and to the ongoing efforts of reconstruction. At the same time, we also have questions, and we notice that others do too. How can we reconcile the role given to the Security Council under the Charter of the United Nations with a “humanitarian intervention” not mandated by the Council? What does this mean for the future of the Security Council and of the Organization as a whole? Are regional organizations to assume a leading role that goes beyond what is contained in Chapter VIII of the Charter? It will be important to discuss these 33 questions, though finding satisfactory answers is certainly difficult. To our mind, Kosovo has made it very clear once more that the prevention of conflicts must be the key concept in conflict-resolution as well as in other areas. Preventive measures are the best means of saving lives and resources of every kind, and they can be carried out quickly and with discretion. Prevention does not make big news headlines, but it reduces the number of headlines on disasters, of which we continue to see just too many. The potential of prevention is enormous, but its application so far is too modest and far too limited. We know that there is still reluctance and hesitation, but we feel a sense of urgency, a pressing need to enhance preventive activities and to replace a classical concept of sovereignty — a concept that is outdated in many aspects — with a new one which enables us to tackle situations of potential and actual crisis with determination and efficiency. We thus welcome the report of the Secretary-General on the work of the Organization and his very inspiring and timely remarks on a “culture of prevention”. We are convinced that this is the right way for the international community to go. Kosovo has been and somewhat sadly remains a prime example of the need for prevention. Liechtenstein has for several years now promoted ideas and suggestions on a preventive approach with regard to problems arising from the application of the right of self-determination. The international community remains stuck in a situation in which the exercise of the right of self-determination — which is the prerequisite for the enjoyment of all human rights — is denied because it is misunderstood as a claim to independence and statehood. We all have known for very long, since the adoption by the General Assembly of the Friendly Relations Declaration in 1970, that this is not correct. Self-determination can mean many other things, if exercised in a flexible manner and based on a dialogue between the parties concerned. It does not have to lead to the break-up of States; it should rather facilitate the peaceful coexistence of States and communities which are provided a degree of self-administration or self-governance as an expression of their right of self-determination. It is time to free ourselves from biased and obsolete thinking and to recognize that the effective application and exercise of the right of self-determination is the basis for preventing violent disintegration of States as well as internal armed conflicts with all their gruesome aspects and endless human suffering.   Allow me to join the speakers preceding me to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as the President of the General Assembly at this session, the last of the present century. You surely are well versed in this high office through your experience with the United Nations, which will make of the centennial transition the launching platform for ever- more-fruitful future undertakings. As we embark on the next century, the survival of the United Nations as an effective global institution comes into question. Can its role develop in the dawn of a new era? Or will it be more like a brilliant sunset? From the League of Nations to the United Nations, we have continuously pinned our hopes on the United Nations system, looking forward to a promising world ruled by law, governed by justice and blessed with peace. However, the wide-ranging challenges — from questions relating to the maintenance of international peace and security, the eradication of poverty, sustainable development, economic growth and social progress to globalization in meaningful terms — all yet to be met and require firm resolve and certainly not mere rhetoric. As crises continue to unfold throughout the world, we must ask, and answer, certain important questions. Why are threats to international peace and security variably defined and selectively determined from place to place? Why are State violators of the United Nations Charter and international law, including the principle of non-interference, not brought to justice? Why are the instigators of “ethnic cleansing” and the perpetrators of 9 genocide and of crimes against humanity not checked? Why is the fight against terrorism and narcotics so limited? And finally, where and when will gender apartheid come to an end? We are convinced that those challenges and crises can best be dealt with if the United Nations actively functions within a framework similar to that of a state system. In this context, the United Nations Charter serves as an explicit and clear reference outlining the rights and responsibilities, in their entirety, of the Member States. The advent of the new millennium marks the closing of the twentieth century. This is a time for the United Nations to pause and assess the gains and losses, and the successes and setbacks, it has experienced since its founding. The United Nations cannot truly embark on the next millennium until it has conclusively addressed the unfinished items on its agenda and the many existing global threats. One item on — and perhaps at the top of — that agenda, though it is far from finalized, relates to Pakistani hegemonic actions and that country’s collusion with Talibanism in our region. The Pakistani-Taliban occupation of land in Afghanistan represents a clear breach of a fundamental principle of international law, namely, the inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory by force. It is trans-border aggression. In addition, as the report of the Special Rapporteur (E/CN.4/1999/40), states in paragraph 18, the Taliban “continue to pursue policies which are in conflict with international human rights standards by which Afghanistan is bound as a party to the major international human rights instruments.” Furthermore, the Taliban has committed repeated war crimes and crimes against humanity, including forced deportation; the forced displacement of hundreds of thousands of people; the separation of thousands of men from their families; the widespread burning and leveling of houses and entire villages; the systematic destruction of the agricultural base and the irrigation systems, resulting in the loss of crops due for harvesting; and the execution of a scorched-earth policy. This has been particularly true, on a massive scale, in the Shamali Plains, following the July 19 Tashkent meeting of the group of “six plus two”, and just this week in Khoja Ghar, in north-eastern Afghanistan. Their policies of genocide, gender apartheid, trafficking of women and girls, “ethnic cleansing”, religious and sectarian extermination, rigid interpretation of religion, and the pursuit of a military solution spell out the Taliban actions in Afghanistan. They persist in their extremist agenda and advocacy of terrorism. The increase in drug production and trafficking, the Talibanization of the region and their denunciation of the international community continue unabated. In sum, over 50 per cent of the Afghan population has been placed under virtual house arrest, and the entire population remains terrorized by the Taliban. The international community is greatly disturbed and concerned by the ominous nature of the Taliban agenda. The responsibility of the much-discussed yet unresolved turmoil in Afghanistan continues to lie with the Pakistani leadership. Pakistan remains a proponent of arm-twisting, both nuclear and conventional, in South Asia. Afghanistan’s Pakistani-dictated position of subordination, through the Taliban, has long undermined the peace process. Pakistan remains implacably opposed to the formation of a fully representative, multi-ethnic government in Afghanistan, insisting that the Taliban not relinquish power but gain further control. To this end, inter alia, thousands of Pakistani military personnel, members of the paramilitary, former commissioned officers and thousands of recruits and “volunteers” from Pakistani religious schools have been trained and dispatched into Afghanistan for what has been called a “jihad”. The remarks made on 30 July 1999 by Ambassador Lakhdar Brahimi, head of the United Nations Special Mission to Afghanistan (UNSMA), regarding the presence of thousands of armed Pakistani nationals fighting alongside the Taliban, provide credible testimony. In this context, perhaps the article by retired Brigadier Usman Khalid, published in the Pakistani daily The Frontier Post of 29 September 1999, just three days ago, best spells out the Pakistani security dilemma in the form of a bold confession. It states that “the armed forces of Pakistan have been steadfast in playing their role in safeguarding the security of the country [Pakistan]. They have sought to safeguard the nuclear deterrent of Pakistan, resisted pressures to withdraw support from the mujahidin in Kashmir, and have been steadfast in their support to the Taliban in Afghanistan. All of these are of vital importance to Pakistan’s security and survival.” 10 In fact, it is the intervention of Pakistan in Afghanistan, its support for the Taliban and its attempts to justify the Taliban’s defiance of the aspirations of the international community, including reprehensible attempts at Taliban recognition, which has eroded Pakistan’s reputation, causing its political isolation throughout the world. Those who are aware of the Afghan situation and the Afghan resolve to resist any foreign rule continue to be perplexed and puzzled in the face of the Pakistani position. However, despite Talibanism and Pakistan’s massive military intervention in Afghanistan — both of which represent obvious breaches of the United Nations Charter, international law and international humanitarian law — we are delighted to note that the United Nations, following years of skepticism or illusory thinking, appears, perhaps for the first time and only since the open escalation of foreign military involvement in Afghanistan, to have developed an in-depth perception of the longstanding bitter reality of the Pakistani role, its intervention, and the Taliban agenda in Afghanistan. Yet to our dismay, while this in-depth perception has been so long in developing, the plight of the Afghan nation has remained unresolved. It is doomed to the terrible predicament prevailing in many parts of Afghanistan: the inadmissible acquisition of territory by force and interference in its internal affairs. It is because of those fundamental questions that at the outset of my statement I raised the question of the survival of the United Nations as an effective global institution. Given its approach to Afghanistan, can we still put our hope in the United Nations system for the resolution of the Afghan crisis or other similar or dissimilar crises? It is our earnest conviction that the litmus test for United Nations survival will be its engagement, without any selectivity and in the framework of the State system, in the rigorous implementation and enforcement of its Charter. Pakistan is blatantly breaching the United Nations Charter, which explicitly requires all Member States to refrain from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any State, as well as numerous General Assembly and Security Council resolutions and other resolutions on terrorism and the use of mercenaries. The reports of the Secretary-General, his Special Envoy for Afghanistan and the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Afghanistan clearly bring to light the bellicose, obstinate and intransigent attitude of the Taliban mercenaries. In this context, the United Nations, acting through the Security Council, has a duty to maintain international peace and security, in accordance with the Charter. The Pakistani aggression, State-sponsored terrorism and other activities, which threaten the peace and security of the region and hamper regional development and cooperation, should be identified, condemned and dealt with by taking appropriate measures. Furthermore, the Islamic State of Afghanistan earnestly expects the Security Council to consider the imposition of immediate sanctions against both the Taliban and their Pakistani mentors, in accordance with paragraph 15 of Security Council resolution 1214 (1998) of 8 December 1998 and in conformity with its responsibility under the Charter of the United Nations. The United Nations is also expected to use its good offices to convince the Pakistani leadership, including its military intelligence wing, the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), to steer its policy away from intervention in Afghanistan and towards non-intervention, so that we can move from a Pakistani-dictated position of subordination to a mutually dictated position of cooperation. The Pakistani ISI should no longer thwart peace initiatives. A first step in this regard would be the withdrawal from Afghanistan of all armed Pakistanis, whether military personnel or so-called religious volunteers. Pakistan should also put a halt to its direct assistance to the Taliban, ranging from military hardware and oil to expertise and tactical advice. Only under such pressure will the Taliban resume peace negotiations. On the verge of the next millennium, the Islamic State of Afghanistan genuinely hopes that, with the resolution of the Afghan crisis, it will be able to serve as a factor for peace and stability in the region, promoting good-neighbourliness, mutual respect and cooperation and acting as a transit country for trade between all its neighbours, without any distinction or preference. The United Nations is earnestly expected to step up its efforts in the Afghan peace process. In this respect, we greatly appreciate the untiring efforts of the Secretary- General and Ambassador Lakhdar Brahimi, his Special Envoy for Afghanistan. The Islamic State of Afghanistan welcomes and fully supports the 19 July Tashkent Declaration of the Member States that make up the “six plus two” group, which it hopes will be fully observed. Regrettably, the Taliban continue to voice their adamant opposition not only to the Tashkent Declaration but to all other peace initiatives. We sincerely welcome paragraph 2 of the report of the Secretary-General (A/54/378) of 21 September 1999, which states, “it is noteworthy that only one week after the Tashkent meeting, the Taliban began a major offensive against the United Front in the Shomali plains, located to the north of Kabul.” Paragraph 3 further states, “The Taliban insist that the UF [United Front] must embrace the Emirate system while the UF question the Taliban's popular mandate to make this demand.” Mindful of the principle that there should be a peaceful resolution of the conflict, the Islamic State of Afghanistan earnestly desires a broad-based, fully representative and multi-ethnic government in Afghanistan. The Islamic State of Afghanistan, which is struggling for sovereignty and the return of peace and normalcy through the institution of such a government, earnestly aspires to the resolution of fundamental issues such as the restoration of and full respect for human rights in Afghanistan, particularly the rights of women. Under the Taliban, women have now been reduced to a voiceless and invisible state of non-being, condemned to stay in their houses and stripped of their basic rights, even the rights to work and education, all of which is against the genuine tenets of Islam. The Islamic State of Afghanistan welcomes the fact that the first year of the new millennium will be observed as the Year of Dialogue among Civilizations, as called for by the Islamic Republic of Iran, and we believe that it will prepare suitable ground for further understanding among the global family, thereby contributing to collective human civilization. This century introduced a new paradigm based on collective security and international organizations, concerted approaches and international order, all based on the equal sovereignty of States. From the United Nations Charter to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the new paradigm has affected all corners of the world. As a troubled member of this global family, Afghanistan awaits a collective endeavour by the international community to deal with its problems, thereby helping the world, or at least a part of the world, to become a better place for humankind.  The President of the General Assembly has assumed the mantle of leadership at a critical time, as we are about to enter the new millennium. We are about to leave a century which has revealed positive and negative aspects of the human experience. On the negative side, the century has been characterized by colonialism, armed conflict, racism and racial discrimination, apartheid, dictatorship, the Holocaust, genocide, ethnic cleansing, religious intolerance and other forms of evil. In their wake many people, particularly women and children, have lost their lives and have been maimed, traumatized, dehumanized, displaced and forced to seek refuge. Poverty and underdevelopment have wreaked havoc. On the other hand, humankind has demonstrated a sense of magnanimity in overcoming suffering and despair. We have made very strong efforts to wipe out slavery, colonialism, racial discrimination and apartheid. We have striven, through multilateral institutions such as the United Nations, to promote the togetherness of humankind and improve the well-being of all. We realize, however, that there is a lot more that can and must be done. As this century comes to a close, Mr. Gurirab’s leadership as President of the General Assembly, and his country, Namibia, represent a beacon of hope for the future. His qualities as an outstanding diplomat, freedom fighter and consensus-builder are all well known to us. My delegation wishes him well as he discharges his heavy responsibilities and leads this esteemed Organization into the new millennium. In today’s globalized world, the challenges are many and the opportunities are manifold. With the same spirit that has enabled us to surmount hurdles in the past, together we can make the twenty-first century a century for the prosperity of all. The groundwork, the foundation for all this, exists. To give credit where it is due, despite many weaknesses, humankind has never been wanting in ideas. The standard-setting strides and intellectual innovations of this century, particularly since the formation of the United Nations, could have been more appreciated if only an extra effort had been exerted towards implementation. Indeed, the twenty-first century should focus on the implementation and concretization of the ideas that have made this century worthwhile. The consolidation of human rights, good governance and human development seems to my delegation a useful point of departure. The country that I represent was for a long time under a dictatorship. The people of Malawi suffered and know what it means to be deprived of freedom. They are well aware of the impact that denial of human rights and fundamental freedoms has on governance and development. To us the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms are not optional, but essential prerequisites for the well-being of humankind. Human rights are universal and indivisible. They are inalienable. When the people of Malawi went to the polls in June this year, in the second democratic elections, we confirmed our desire to strengthen further the democratization processes that we started in 1994. The entrenchment of democracy in Malawi has given our people an opportunity to foster unity and common understanding. We now have an environment conducive to exploiting our full potential and maximizing our contributions to the developmental efforts that the Government is pursuing. We wish for all people of the world, regardless of their origin, the same opportunity to enjoy the rights and freedoms that Malawians are proud to enjoy today. Unfortunately, the situation globally does not give cause for optimism, and there is no room for complacency. Inasmuch as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights set forth the yardstick of common achievement and has given rise to numerous subject-specific binding instruments, every effort should be made to assure their effective implementation. The rights of women, children and the disadvantaged, especially, must be given their fullest practical meaning. As we commemorate the twentieth anniversary of the adoption of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, we should reaffirm our commitment to take all practical measures to eliminate discrimination against women and review all practices that impede the mainstreaming of gender in all our developmental endeavours. Malawi welcomes and looks forward to the review conference of the Beijing Platform for Action next year. It is our belief that gender equality, development and peace in the twenty-first century are achievable. Almost 10 years ago, world leaders assembled in this very Hall for the World Summit for Children. They made groundbreaking commitments to reach certain goals by the year 2000. The State of the World’s Children 1999 report, however, indicates that the benchmarks set are far from being realized. Meeting the commitments of the 1990 Summit remains one of the challenges that we all face at the beginning of the twenty-first century. The continued recruitment and use of children as soldiers in most of today’s conflicts is a major source of worry. The use of children as child labourers and in prostitution is also cause for serious concern. We remain convinced that investing in children means a secure future for us all. Many other conferences have also taken place — particularly during this last decade — including those in Paris, Vienna, Rio de Janeiro, Istanbul, Cairo and Copenhagen. In all these conferences, the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms has been a recurrent and cross-cutting theme. Malawi fully supports the outcome of these conferences. The time has come to make good the pledges that we made: personal liberties for all, particularly women and children; social development, especially for the least developed countries; protection of the environment; provision of food and shelter; jobs and income; education for all; and secure health, including reproductive rights, remain the core of human security. Indeed, these conferences have brought to the fore the interlinkages between the protection of human rights and the questions of good governance and development. Quite often, they seem to give rise to conflicting interests; we aspire to a rights-based approach to development, yet the facts are stark: how can our countries, particularly those with fragile economies such as our own, ensure strong public policies aimed at promoting food security, for example, when the very interventions intended to provide incentives for local production and distribution are put into question by our efforts to spur economic growth? How do we give priority to public expenditures for basic social services such as education, health and water when these are the first to be cut in an effort to meet structural adjustment conditionalities and the demands of debt servicing? The challenge for us all is to minimize conflict and aim to strike an appropriate balance to ensure proper services that are human-rights compliant. Malawi supports the statement in the United Nations Development Programme Human Development Report 1999, to the effect that national and global governance must be reinvented with human development and equity at their core. With our concerted efforts, this is achievable. My delegation particularly welcomes the positive developments that are taking place in our beloved continent, Africa. As democracy blossoms, we are increasingly witnessing efforts to harness progress in human development: Africa’s renaissance is no longer a slogan, but a realistic achievement for the twenty-first century. In Malawi, we remain committed to strengthening good governance based on the principles of accountability and transparency. Attention is also given to addressing corruption and strengthening public sector administration, in particular enhancing local participation in decision- making processes. We will continue to carry out the necessary economic and fiscal reforms. Despite unpalatable structural adjustment conditionalities and the impact of debt servicing, the Government continues to give top priority to the provision of basic social services, particularly in education, health, water supply, community development and road infrastructure. The Poverty Alleviation Programme and the Malawi Social Action Fund seek to empower the populace so that they can contribute more positively to development. Free primary education for all was introduced by the Government to ensure that Malawian children, who hold the future of the country in their 12 hands, are given equal opportunities to grow into productive and responsible adults. In the health and water sectors, true to the slogan “healthy people make a healthy nation”, the Government is establishing more health centres in many parts of rural Malawi: the Bakili Muluzi health initiative, which aims to bring medical services right to the people, was introduced recently. We are also making remarkable progress in bringing clean and safe water to all rural areas. In order to respond fully to the HIV/AIDS pandemic in the country, the Government, in close cooperation with civil society, has embarked on highly publicized awareness campaigns which we hope will contribute to changing behavioural patterns. We appeal for more resources: additional funding for research is indeed imperative. Meanwhile, for those already afflicted, it is important for the drugs that are available now to be made more affordable for the majority of our poor. In agriculture, the mainstay of Malawi, the priority is to achieve food self-sufficiency. In this connection, we have embarked on irrigation programmes to supplement rain-fed agricultural production. The Malawian examples are typical of the important steps that Africa is taking, which are positive signs of renewal. Africa, however, needs the world in the same way that the world needs Africa. Africa needs a partnership, one that is shared and mutually beneficial — a genuine partnership. We realize that the primary responsibility for African development rests with African countries themselves. It is nevertheless important for African countries to be given meaningful assistance to enable them to embark on sound economic development. The Cairo Agenda for Action adopted by the Organization of African Unity (OAU) in 1995 is an important blueprint for African economic development: it sets out the broad priority areas requiring specific attention. Numerous other initiatives have highlighted the need to help the development of Africa. The challenge as we approach the twenty-first century should and must be to harmonize these initiatives with a view to adopting action-oriented measures for urgent implementation. Whatever interventions are made, it has become increasingly clear that a meaningful transformation of African economies, even after introducing all the necessary domestic, economic and market reforms, cannot be sustained without complementary improvements in trade flows, improvements in financial resource flows — whether through increased official development assistance, debt relief or forgiveness, or foreign direct investment — and support for regional cooperation. All this must be done in a conducive, secure and predictable environment. Indeed, in the globalized economy of today what happens in one part of the globe has ripple effects and impacts developments elsewhere: the Asian financial crisis and the recent sale of gold are clear examples of this phenomenon. We must act now if we are to avert a human catastrophe in the near future. In particular, my delegation wishes to single out the imperative need for the international community to address the problem of debt. Although encouraged by the positive responses in recent months, we renew the appeal for debt forgiveness which we made in this Hall several years ago. The current ratio of external debt to gross national product, 89 per cent for my country, is causing enormous economic stress and hardship, particularly for women and children. The situation does not augur well for the future, and is having adverse effects on the Government’s poverty eradication policy; also, the gains we have made politically through democratization and good governance will become meaningless without economic development. Malawi is not alone in this predicament. Many other countries find themselves in similar conditions, where poverty is rampant and the disparities between the haves and the have-nots are widening. One of the major issues on which people look up to the United Nations is because of its concern for national identity. It is in this spirit that Malawi reiterates its conviction that the question of participation by the Republic of China on Taiwan in the activities of the United Nations deserves consideration on the basis of respect for the principle of universality and the sovereign equality of States. The Republic of China, a democratic country of over 21 million people, is a reality and cannot be ignored. It cannot be wished away. Malawi believes that readmission of the Republic of China to the United Nations and to all its specialized agencies would be an important factor for peace, stability and international cooperation. No progress towards improved human development can be sustained without peace and stability. As we commemorate the centennial of the first Peace Conference at The Hague, my delegation wishes to reiterate the importance that it attaches to the peaceful settlement of disputes and respect for international law, including 13 international humanitarian law. In this connection, Malawi also welcomes the adoption of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court last year. We have already signed the Statute, and steps are under way to assure ratification without delay. We are confident that as the next century nears, the early entry into force of the Rome Statute will fortify our resolve to bring an end to impunity. Much as the Rome Statute will go a long way in bringing to book those perpetrators of heinous crimes, it is incumbent upon us all to rid the earth of all weapons of mass destruction. The Review Conference of the States Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) next year affords us an opportunity to make greater strides in the area of nuclear disarmament. It is worth recalling the words of Albert Einstein: “Peace cannot be kept by force. It can only be achieved by understanding.” Indeed, peace cannot be sustained by a threat of use of force. So long as the spectre of a nuclear war exists, the world will never be at peace with itself. We urge all countries to sign and ratify the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and those countries that have nuclear weapons to destroy them in order to finally realize general and complete disarmament and a nuclear-weapon- free world. We also appeal to those countries that have not yet done so to become party to the Chemical Weapons Convention and the anti-personnel landmines Convention. We equally enjoin current efforts to address the proliferation of small arms. In our region, this problem has assumed frightening proportions, as robberies and thefts have become more and more violent. Urgent action needs to be taken to tackle this problem resolutely. In particular, Malawi supports a moratorium on the import, export and manufacture of small arms and light weapons. We must also look for ways of stopping their flow. This Organization should prevail upon the manufacturers of these weapons to stop the illegal export of their deadly merchandise to Africa. Let them stop manufacturing and exporting these weapons to Africa. That is the bottom line. There is no point in inviting us to conferences when, under cover of darkness, the manufacturers of those small arms continue exporting them to Africa. The biggest threat to international peace and security remains humankind. As events in Kosovo, Sierra Leone, Angola, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Afghanistan, Somalia, Rwanda, Guinea-Bissau, the Middle East, the Korean peninsula and many other parts of the globe, including, most recently, East Timor, have shown, human beings continue to be the main centre of activity where armed conflict, tensions and the quest for power exist. As the Constitution of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) reminds us, “wars begin in the minds of men”. Only human beings can control their own destiny. Just as those who sat at The Hague Conference 100 years ago were, we are capable of renouncing violence and of resolving all disputes through peaceful means. In this regard, we would like to welcome the Organization of African Unity (OAU) Summit declaration that the year 2000 will be a year of peace, security and solidarity in Africa. We remain optimistic that the Israelis and the Palestinians; the people of Western Sahara and East Timor; our brothers and sisters in Angola, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Sierra Leone and Somalia; and many others whose rights and liberties remain unprotected will finally find peace. We can together provide a conducive atmosphere for the provision of all other basic needs that have an impact on peace and security. In the view of my delegation, the United Nations remains a singular Organization that is capable of consolidating peace and promoting sustainable human development. The relevance of the United Nations in the maintenance of international peace and security has become even more pronounced in recent years. My delegation wishes to pay tribute to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for providing leadership and a renewed sense of mission to the Organization. Reform of the Organization systemwide and of its funds, programmes and specialized agencies has rekindled hopes for a secure world. Effective collaboration by all United Nations bodies, each focusing on areas of expertise, is a sure way of reaching our goals and realizing our aspirations. The task that remains is to make the United Nations more responsive to the responsibilities ahead — the challenges of the twenty-first century. For six years now we have been talking about reform of the Security Council, but without any breakthrough. It is imperative that the Security Council be made more democratic, transparent and accountable. Representation of developing countries in the permanent category is necessary in order to ensure the continued legitimacy of, and respect for, the Council’s decisions. The United Nations must be properly resourced in order for it to carry out adequately its noble activities. Similarly, the United Nations cannot remain aloof to the requirements of civil society. Increased cooperation 14 between the Organization and civil society, including the private sector, can only make the Organization stronger. The important role played in particular by non- governmental organizations in the adoption of the Rome Statute and the anti-personnel landmines Convention must be acknowledged and ways explored to enhance it. We believe that increased contacts between the Organization and civil society will ensure the continued relevance of the Organization in the twenty-first century. As the Organization prepares for the Millennium Assembly next year under your leadership, the role of civil society in the consolidation of human rights, good governance and human development might be a subject that should be given in-depth consideration within the context of the overall theme of the United Nations in the twenty- first century. Finally, Malawi would like to congratulate the three new Members of the United Nations: the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. We welcome them to the United Nations family.  Let me first congratulate you, Sir, on your unanimous election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. We likewise extend our appreciation to Mr. Didier Opertti, the President of the Assembly at its fifty-third session. We wish also to convey our appreciation and thanks to His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan for his leadership in promoting the objectives and the mission of the United Nations. I wish to convey the warm greetings of President Kuniwo Nakamura, the entire leadership and the people of the Republic of Palau to the Assembly on the occasion of the fifty-fourth session. On behalf of the Government and the people of Palau, I extend our sincere appreciation to the members of this body for their assistance. Since attaining membership of the United Nations in 1994, the Republic of Palau has benefitted greatly from a variety of United Nations-sponsored programmes and from international cooperation, which have helped us play our role in promoting peace and democracy in our region. This year, on 1 October, we proudly celebrate the fifth anniversary of our independence, which came about as a result of a unique and very successful political treaty with the United States of America under the Compact of Free Association. Diplomatic relations and economic cooperation with a growing number of members of this body assure stability and promise great economic potential for the future. Before I proceed, let me take this rare opportunity to welcome three of our regional neighbours — the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga — and to congratulate them on joining this important Organization. Palau also expresses its appreciation and support for the efforts of the Security Council in promoting peace, security and the protection of human rights and democracy throughout the world, and especially in troubled areas in need of United Nations intervention. Today we have less than 100 days left before entering the new millennium — 97 days to be exact. There are indeed many global issues and problems that certainly deserve our attention. The existence of the Earth in the next millennium may, however, be in great jeopardy if the environment and nature's forces can no longer support the human population. Global warming or climate change may merit the upmost attention and our concerted effort. I call upon every Member State, large and small, developed and developing, rich and poor, to work cooperatively to find meaningful solutions and preventive actions for this growing international problem and challenge. I am confident that through sharing information on climate change we can learn from one another and take the necessary steps to meet this very dangerous global problem. Let me share a Palauan proverb with the Assembly, one that foreshadows climate change. In Palau the winds are mainly from the east or from the west. When there are easterly winds, the sky is not so telling before the rain. As the rain commences, one may think it is just a light shower. However, it actually comes in a downpour. In the old days our raincoat was simply several leaves sewn together and put over our heads. So we would get soaked through and through during this downpour. The message is: do not underestimate the easterly winds, or you will get deluged with water. That is our message from yesterday, and it is our message today: do not take climate change lightly, or there will be dire consequences. Climate change for small island nations such as the Republic of Palau has great consequences because of our fragile ecosystem. To expand on just a few examples, the El Niño phenomenon, which impacted many communities throughout the globe, had far- reaching and devastating effects in Palau as well. At least one third of all our hard coral communities died. Our reefs are home to over 500 species of corals and 1,500 species of fish, and are vibrant with marine life. The loss of our coral communities effects our entire ecosystem and eventually our people and their economic livelihoods. The El Niño phenomenon also caused extreme drought that dried up our main water reservoir and destroyed over 1,400 patches of our most important root crop, taro, which of course added another burden to our daily lives. Palau and our Pacific region are also suffering from unusually high rises in tide tables, causing our farmlands to be infiltrated with salt water that eventually will have dire effects on our crops. This high sea level rise has literally caused islands to disappear, and others are in imminent danger of disappearing. Abnormally warm ocean temperatures have also caused extensive coral bleaching, and rising atmospheric temperatures devastate agriculture. According to the 1999-2000 World Development Report, a 1 metre sea level rise due to climate change would force about 70 million people to move, and would have a dramatic effect on food security in central Asia and the Pacific. Many other examples exist, I am sure. These few examples, and examples in other countries, beg for global cooperation on climate change. The Republic of Palau recognizes the link between climate change and biodiversity, and is committed to preserving our biodiversity. Protecting our forests is one of the most effective mechanisms to slow climate change. Forests, as we know, are carbon sinks, which absorb carbon dioxide rather than releasing it as a harmful greenhouse gas. Because of this, the destruction of forest has a dramatic impact on climate change. The Republic of Palau has taken responsibility for its forests through the National Forest Act and Mangrove Management Plan. Progress is being made on national regulations requiring protective vegetative zones along our wetland and coastal areas. The Republic of Palau sponsors a summer tree planting programme for our children in order to teach our youth the importance of our natural resources. We are taking steps necessary to ensure that our forests and reefs are available for future generations. The Republic of Palau has incorporated the grave issues of climate change and rises in sea level into long- term strategic planning. Instruments for accession to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol are in transmission, and we humbly request international assistance to develop a comprehensive vulnerability index that encompasses economic and environmental factors like climate change. We enthusiastically support efforts to adjust energy prices to accurately reflect the environmental 2 consequences of fossil fuel use. Alongside climate change, energy conservation is critical to Palau's economy and the environment. We have established a national policy, the National Energy Goal, to subsidize renewable energy programmes, and have audited all Government facilities for energy efficiency. At our national hospital we replaced standard incandescent lights with energy efficient compact fluorescent lamps. Solar panels provide lights for our outer islands and isolated villages. Solar beacons light our reef channels. Our national energy programme and public utility corporation are in partnership with the Million Solar Rooftops initiative to educate the public about renewable energy applications. Let us start off the new century with a dynamic move away from fossil fuels and towards a commitment to environment friendly energy alternatives. Entering into relevant agreements and conventions which target international response to environmental issues is another responsibility that our Republic has to its people and this world community. It is one that we are fulfilling as time goes on, being a signatory and party to eight international agreements, including the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. The Republic of Palau views climate change as being in the forefront of issues that need to be addressed, and that can only be effectively addressed if all Member States meaningfully contribute on the basis of common but differentiated responsibilities. The use of the Kyoto mechanisms is an integral component of a global solution to the issue of climate change. Therefore, it is critical that no artificial restrictions be placed on the use of these mechanisms. If we can all come to terms with the intent of the Kyoto mechanisms and develop a fair and realistic approach to their use, there will be no sufficient reason why we cannot enter the new millennium with positive remedies to the issue of climate change. Maybe we can even enter the new millennium with a breath of fresh air. As we travel towards the new millennium, let us move forward with the tools that we have developed as an international family, so that the benefits, although they may go unseen in our generation, may be fully appreciated by our children and their children. These initiatives shall be our imprint, our assurance of a healthier environment for generations to come.  I am pleased to convey to the President on behalf of the delegation of Gabon, our warmest congratulations on his well-deserved election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. In addition to the tribute his election pays to Namibia, it is eloquent testimony to both his personal and professional qualities. We hardly need to point out that he was one of the principal architects of Namibia's independence. Today, the President has the honour of presiding over the last Assembly session of the century and of leading the United Nations towards the new millennium. Allow me through you to assure him of my delegation's complete and wholehearted cooperation. To his predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Uruguay, I extend my deepest gratitude for the work accomplished during his term of office. I congratulate the Secretary-General for his initiatives and actions towards peace and security worldwide. To the three new Member States, the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga, which have just joined the great United Nations family, I convey my warmest congratulations. I am convinced that this session will enable us to share our thoughts on the increasingly complex challenges that our Organization must face if it is to create the necessary conditions for the maintenance of international peace and security and for economic and social development. We are entering a major period of transition marked by the end of one century and the beginning of another, so it is beyond necessary for the international community to see to it that the new millennium is spared the scourges that sap humankind's strength. During this century that is now coming to its end, the world has undergone a rapid acceleration in the pace of history and a thorough transformation as a result of combined effects of the explosion in the numbers of new technologies, the expansion of trade and the breathtaking increase in the role played by markets. The scale of this transformation, which affects all aspects of people's lives, is today so great that no nation can escape its influence. Unfortunately, nations are not all in the same boat: some steadily accumulate progress and prosperity while others seem destined to a bottomless pit of destitution. I am thinking here specifically about the African countries which, unlike the rest of the world, have not yet taken advantage of the profound changes in the world, and whose access to the so often trumpeted shared prosperity is denied. I am thinking also about one and a half billion men and women around the world who live on less than a dollar a day, and the billion adults who can neither read nor write. I am thinking too about the 300 million Africans who eke out their lives in a state of abject poverty on the outer margins of the global village. Add to this bleak picture the heavy burden of debt, which is strangling our economies, compromising any attempt at development and reducing us to the level of modern-day slaves at the tender mercy of our creditors. The budgetary resources allocated to service external debt overwhelm all efforts to meet the most basic needs of our people. It is therefore crucial that the recurring problem of debt should be considered not only in terms of socio-economic indicators but also taking into account a State's efforts to combat poverty. While welcoming the recent initiative undertaken at Cologne by the Group of Seven and Russia with a view to cancelling the debt of the most heavily indebted countries, the Government of Gabon is nevertheless disappointed by the fact that the eligibility criteria for those countries are so restrictive; for it must be recalled that debt, like poverty, is a constant threat to the stability 22 of States. Therefore, the burning question of global proportions that we must all face is how to take advantage, both individually and collectively, of the current prodigious global prosperity and the enormous accumulation of wealth created by globalization in order to substantially reduce the poverty of nations and of their people. As the Minister Fischer of Germany said recently, “Africa must not be a loser in globalization. The rich countries of the North have not only a duty, but also an interest, in assisting their poorest neighbours in the southern hemisphere to seize the opportunities that globalization offers them and to allow them to participate more equitably in the global economy”. My country feels that the time has come for the international community to seriously tackle the unavoidable problem of the eradication of poverty, at least in its most extreme form. We share the firm conviction that our Organization must promote, in the words of the Charter, “higher standards of living, full employment, and conditions of economic and social progress and development”. This would be the first step towards eliminating the imbalances that are among the underlying causes of many conflicts around the world, for a world in which some make progress while others fall behind carries within it the seeds of its own instability. Can we therefore move towards a new concept of the idea of security that no longer focuses on the security of nations alone, but that focuses above all on the well-being of peoples? The sine qua non condition for sparing future generations from the scourge of war is to move from a culture of war towards a culture of peace. There are genuine reasons to be concerned about peace and stability in the world. Maintaining international peace and security, a task assigned to our Organization, has been severely put to the test by the outbreak and persistence of a number of crises. In this regard, Africa has become the main theatre of these devastating crises, which result in countless victims, refugees and displaced persons. In spite of this regrettable situation, we have seen some encouraging signs concerning the restoration of peace in certain African subregions. The recent signing of the peace Agreement by all the parties to the conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, including all the rebel movements, now opens up the way for a lasting settlement of the conflict. We urge all the parties to translate into action the will they expressed in signing the Lusaka Agreement on 10 July 1999. It is now urgent for the international community, and for the Security Council in particular, to take the necessary steps for the full implementation of the Agreement without delay. In the neighbouring Republic of the Congo, the authorities have again recently expressed their willingness to engage in dialogue with the opposition. In return, the opposition has also made clear its intention to take part in an inter-Congolese dialogue in order to achieve lasting peace. The recent Lomé Agreement on Sierra Leone is also a positive sign of a return of lasting peace to that country. My country is pleased with the resumption of the peace process in the Middle East and urges the complete application of the Wye Plantation agreements, as well as full compliance with the agreements signed in the past. Despite all of this progress, we cannot overlook the fact that important efforts still have to made in Angola as a result of UNITA's refusal to implement the Lusaka agreements. Likewise, despite the prospects that are beginning to appear, the border dispute between Ethiopia and Eritrea still remains a burning issue. According to the most recent report of the Secretary- General, Somalia is, unfortunately, still without State institutions. The time has come to reintegrate that country into the concert of nations. Guaranteeing lasting peace and security is today a collective matter. Although the primary responsibility for the maintenance of peace falls to the Security Council, it is appropriate for the United Nations to encourage the development of regional peacekeeping and security mechanisms, in accordance with Chapter VIII of the Charter. Significant progress has been made in Central Africa in preventing and managing conflicts within the framework of the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa. The implementation of the early-warning mechanism and the creation of the high council for peace and security in Central Africa are perfect examples of this. It is also worth mentioning the joint military exercises to be held by the member States of the Committee in Gabon during the first half of the year 2000 23 to simulate peacekeeping operations. Furthermore, in preparation for the military exercises that will be held in Gabon within the framework of strengthening African peacekeeping capabilities, a military-diplomatic seminar took place in Libreville in June 1999, with the participation of 51 countries and international organizations. In the last few weeks, the Security Council has held public debates on such vital topics as children and civilians in armed conflicts. And five days ago, I had the honour of participating in another public debate of the Security Council on small weapons. This matter is part of the United Nations efforts to work towards complete disarmament. Indeed, the illegal circulation of massive quantities of light and small-calibre weapons in the world hampers development and represents a real threat to international peace and security. The nature of these weapons unfortunately helps fuel the sad and widely condemned phenomenon of the use of children as combatants in the many conflicts that break out around the world. The same applies to large-scale banditry. In any case, we cannot envision a world at peace if the international community does not actively mobilize to help developing countries emerge from the vicious circle of underdevelopment-violence-underdevelopment. If luck has heretofore spared us from the horrors of war, Gabon is not immune to the backlash of the armed conflicts that plague some of our neighbours. As Security Council resolution 1208 (1998) clearly indicates, asylum countries pay a heavy price for their solidarity with people driven out of their homes as a result of combat. The consequences of refugee flows on the security, environment and economies of host countries are sometimes incalculable, especially when the presence of combatants among the refugees is used as an excuse for troops to carry out raids in the host country. Even though we live in peace and have never experienced a domestic or inter-State war, Gabon nevertheless shoulders its share of the burdens of war. We are facing massive migratory flows that are leading to serious internal upheavals, and we recently welcomed some 50,000 refugees. Given the extent of the situation, for which my country was not prepared, the President of the Republic of Gabon organized on 11 August last a mini-summit in Libreville with the participation of a number of his peers from the subregion. That summit considered the possibility of Africans' taking greater control of the question of refugees and displaced persons, with the support of the international community. On that occasion, President Bongo proposed the creation of an African agency for emergency humanitarian intervention. I would urgently appeal to the international community to provide greater assistance to African refugees. We strongly hope that an emergency programme can be set up that would relieve their suffering and facilitate their return to their country of origin. The international community has the means to do so, as it has proved in other situations. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to pay warm tribute to Mrs. Sadako Ogata, United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, who, during the international action taken in favour of Kosovo, heightened the international community's awareness of the particular situation of African refugees. Let me now tackle the question of development from the perspective of my country's experience. As in other African countries, the socio-economic situation of Gabon is precarious. I shall not then resort to clichés such as saying that my country is an “African emirate” because of our potential in raw materials, to the extent that today we are the only sub-Saharan nation to be classified by international financial and monetary institutions as an upper-middle-income country. As a result, we are denied access to flexible conditions for our loans and for our debt service. However, the Human Development Index, which places us in 124th place, clearly shows that Gabon is in a very similar situation to that of other African countries. That is why we have undertaken all of the necessary structural reforms to join the global economy and to participate in subregional and regional integration. We have liberalized our economy by lifting tariff and non- tariff barriers and restrictions as well as by instituting customs and tax reform. We have privatized our principal semi-public corporations in order to make them more effective and competitive. We have created a new juridical and institutional environment that is stable and will encourage investment and promote the expansion of the private sector. Finally, we have set up effective provisions for cooperation and regional integration in the framework of the Economic and Monetary Community of Central Africa and of the Economic Community of Central African States. The stage has been set, but the actors — meaning the investors — have not yet made their entrance. Foreign direct investment has thus far systematically avoided our continent. 24 We feel, however, that the world economy stands to gain by taking advantage of the immense potential of the African market, which will soon have a billion consumers in a continent that is overflowing with oil, gold, diamonds and other raw materials required by industries of the North. My country's leadership is dedicated to the promotion of democracy and the institutions that guarantee it— hence all of the political changes we have experienced and are experiencing, which have made Gabon an example of a smooth transition from a single-party regime to political pluralism. It is against this backdrop that recently, in the presence of international observers and for the second time since the advent of political pluralism, free and fair presidential elections were held in my country. The President of the Republic, El Hadj Omar Bongo, was re- elected in a peaceful social and political context, a guarantee of democratic legitimacy. Democracy which is accompanied by good governance, the rule of law and respect for human rights is the most important factor in the transition towards a culture of peace. For lasting peace is a prerequisite for the exercise of all the rights and obligations of peoples, and it is the only soil in which democracy and development can take root. It is therefore up to the United Nations system and its Member States to ensure that these goals and principles, so dear to us, become a reality for all in the new millennium.   We are coming to the end of 1999, a date that many see as the end of an epoch, given the proximity of the new millennium. The imminence of its arrival invites us to reflect on the history of men and women. It is with humility that Western nations, such as mine, consider the development of mankind, which well before our year one was recorded by other calendars during thousands and thousands of years, as homo sapiens began to create tools of wood and metal, began to bury their dead with dignity or to build empires and cultures ever greater, and also ever more ephemeral. Today we marvel at the mysterious paintings of prehistoric man, such as we find in Andorra and throughout the Pyrenees, or at the great architectural projects of ancient Egypt. Our culture, our crafts, our way of life — all these have certainly changed; but our intellect, though more cultivated and filled with more knowledge, continues to grasp at the problems of our existence in the same way, with the same hesitations — caught between superstition, cruelty and fear on the one hand and optimism and hope on the other. In short, at the dawn of the year 2000 we remain essentially human and we can still discern in ourselves the traces of our ancestors who were born of natural evolution. However, the progress of human societies has so intensively transformed our environment that our era is intrinsically new and different from those that preceded it. This new world, so recent and so obvious to us that it appears it could not be otherwise, is the world of the new millennium. Globalization defines the spirit of the age. This phenomenon is of such importance that the General Assembly should reflect upon it, each of us according to his unique perspective. The universality of this international forum — where, because of the far- sightedness of its founders, all nations, large and small, have the same voice — makes it the ideal place for a sober reflection on globalization and its effects. The nineteenth century saw the birth of nationalism, which, in giving cohesion to human communities of all sizes, mythologized its unifying elements, often to an extreme. Andorra is a State, the fruit of a juridical agreement that defined it, long before the coming of nationalism. Our national essence is not based only on our language, Catalan, which we share with our neighbours to the south and to the north, or on other manifestations of modern nationalism. Institutions are the pillars of our community: a democratic parliamentary system that began in 1419, a culture of peace that has continued uninterrupted since 1278. Perhaps, since the Andorran fatherland is the result of institutional and political ideas worked out in a unique historical experience, born out of 23 a pact, we can emphasize these ideas today in this speech so that here at the United Nations they can serve as unifying institutional elements, thereby promoting the idea that globalization should be shared by all in common progress. What is important in the new millennium is to know how to orient this globalization with international criteria, so that a son of the Argentine pampas or a daughter of Gabon can equally laugh and cry at the same cartoon, so that their freedom and ambitions can be equal and equally unconstrained. For if their childhoods are no longer so culturally separate, the political and economic opportunities they have when they pass into adulthood should be equally similar. Globalization is probably the greatest opportunity for humanity, but it will not develop its potential if it is not accompanied by both principles and political action at the highest levels which allow for the establishment of new “post-national” communities with different cultures but with similar characteristics, communities that together can work towards a world of peace and economic progress. This will never be realized without the United Nations, the indispensable Organization. There are no indispensable nations, just as there are not men and women who are better than others because of the accident of their places of birth. What exists today are the indispensable economic and political precepts that our parents, survivors of the Holocaust and other terrors of the Second World War, gave to the United Nations and to the other international organizations allied to it. This Organization, which many love to criticize, while it may be distorted or weakened by the weakness of its Members, is at its core the expression of one of the greatest moments of the soul of humanity. The political power of the United Nations comes from the defence of the rights of man and the peaceful resolution of conflicts. Its power in the economic sphere is based on an ethical cry for development. I spoke before of the children of the pampas or of Gabon, as I might speak of children of the American Midwest or of East Asia or the French Pyrenees or the Arab peninsula. Many of these boys and girls will grow up with the same aspirations, instilled in them by a global culture, but once the age of adulthood is reached the possibilities for the exploitation of their potentials is not the same, and in this great injustice lie the seeds of new wars, exploitations and corruptions. For many of these children globalization has little meaning. We cannot turn our backs on the fact that 20 per cent of mankind lives in conditions of extreme poverty, and that many millions of others are very close to this state. What does global culture represent for all of these people? Perhaps simply a mirage of all that they might have had and taken pleasure in had they been born citizens of a richer country. The world has today more that 1.5 billion people who lack access to potable water and basic sanitation facilities and who are largely illiterate. What kind of global community will we be creating if these numbers do nothing but rise? The United Nations indicated what needed to take place after the Social Summit in Copenhagen in 1995. That conference traced a path that we have begun to follow, but that must now be followed with a firmer step. Why do we not, in the decades to come, try to apply the desires expressed in United Nations policy to economic organizations, such as the World Trade Organization, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank? We must do this. Otherwise, globalization cannot be any more than it is now: a dictatorship of the financial world over people and their legitimate representatives. A discussion of the responsibility of those States that administer economic aid returns us to the questions of political rights, the advancement of democracy, the transparency of the political and economic process and the consolidation of the rule of law. Models exist, and if they have been developed in specific nations of the earth, these models do not carry any copyright. Human communities are either free or not; there exists no other possibility. True democracy, the freedom to choose the people to administer the public good through regular elections, is the only form of democracy that can be defended. Today, with the information we have at our fingertips, nobody should dare defend tyranny by resorting to cultural arguments. During the first years of the new century, it will be necessary to keep alive the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, so that people everywhere are educated in the social responsibility of the individual and so that democracy is accepted as the only natural form of governance for all regimes. The recent conflict in East Timor is a good example of the opportunities as well as the dangers that the United Nations has before it. On the one hand, we find ourselves facing a long but productive process, in which a popular vote accepted by all the parties will lead towards an unequivocal resolution of a long-standing problem. On the other hand, once this democratic process was effectively carried out, violence broke out, and now we must react quickly in order to stop the massacre. The United Nations capacity for reaction and the mobilization of the forces of 24 the States that compose it is therefore essential. Here is the third aspect of the United Nations that must become more effective than it is at present. Peacekeeping must be conducted using more powerful and better organized mechanisms of intervention that allow for rapid action and guarantee the effective conversion of words into deeds. Globalization, a current reality, presents both opportunities and dangers. In order for it to be a tool of progress, it must be accompanied by a system that is both political — involving democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights — and economic — involving the goal of the eradication of poverty and encouragement of development. Support for the system depends on the United Nations having a real capacity for intervention so that peacekeeping is more effective. This was the point of departure for my series of observations. I can guarantee that Andorra, a small State that has been a United Nations Member only since 1993, will make every effort so that the desire to make the United Nations an instrument for positive globalization is not in vain. We are making increasing efforts within the Organization. Andorra's active participation in the Rome Conference to establish an international criminal court, where it was the second State, after Italy, to sign the Statute, which begins with words written by Andorra well illustrates the efforts of my country to aid and reinforce the rule of law in the world. I have the pleasure to announce to the Assembly today that once the juridical analysis and translation from Catalan has been completed, my Government will give to the Consell General, our Parliament, a copy of the Statute for ratification. We hope, therefore, shortly to be one of the States that will permit the International Criminal Court (ICC) to become a reality by being one of the first countries to ratify the Statute for its entry into force. Another small European State, San Marino, preceded us towards this goal and we congratulate it on its speed and support for the ICC. The work of Andorra in the United Nations concerning the rights of man continues to occupy a special place in this fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. In particular, our delegation will follow with interest the work of the Commission on Human Rights during its meetings in Geneva. Andorra's desire to mark its opposition to the death penalty as punishment for a crime will again be expressed. We will also insist on the need to teach human rights to children, as is emphasized in Article 29 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. We will also work this year on other United Nations Conventions concerning human rights to which Andorra has committed itself to adhere pending internal proceedings. The year 2001, as a result of the internal rotation of the Western Group, will allow Andorra to be a member of the Economic and Social Council. This represents an important goal for us in our international life, and we are pleased to inform the Assembly that Andorra has started its preparatory work for its presence in this organ, so important to the United Nations. The deliberations of the next session of the Economic and Social Council which will take place in New York in the year 2000. For the session to take place in 200l in Geneva, where we will participate as full members, the recent extension of our Permanent Mission to the Geneva Headquarters will assure our being able to carefully follow the proceedings. To this end, I have asked our Permanent Representative to establish at this session which of the members of his team, and in what capacity, will be responsible for the Economic and Social Council in 2001 for Andorra. This preparation will ensure that our contribution will measure up to the noble work of the Council, notably in the war against poverty. Still on the economic plane, Andorra's candidature for the World Trade Organization represents one of the most important current challenges for my country, alongside the relationship we are exploring with our neighbours in the European Union. As a small State which tries to understand its economic opportunities, we find the flows of global commerce, and our participation in them, of particular interest. In 1998 each Andorran gave around $6 to our annual budget for contributions to the United Nations; this is the per capita figure for the Andorran contribution to the Organization. I am aware that it is not an enormous contribution, but it is much greater than that which each inhabitant of the biggest countries with a high income pays or should pay. A good part of this figure was for voluntary contributions towards disarmament. An exhibition on children and small arms opened recently. Prepared by the Department of Under-Secretary-General Dhanapala and the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), and sponsored by Andorra, it will move to different sites in the world to raise consciousness concerning the tragedy brought about by the presence of small arms in areas of conflict, especially for the young. We have also made contributions towards programmes designed to collect small arms in some of those countries that suffer from an infestation of this plague. My country 25 intends to continue to contribute to initiatives such as these in order to express our solidarity with the actions for peace of the United Nations. It is right that a small country such as mine, which has been blessed by 721 years of uninterrupted peace should participate in the United Nations in those acts which bring about a culture of peace. The last time I visited the Headquarters of the United Nations, during May of last year, I did so to present a programme of computerization for the archives of the Group of Western European and Other States to the high- level working group on informatics. I am happy that the diplomatic mission of a small State such as ours can bring about the realization of this project, aided by the National Computer Science Centre of Andorra. The server computers installed at the Mission function at a good rhythm and other regional groups have asked for information in order to establish a similar system. I therefore reiterate the offer I made last year concerning the cooperation of Andorra with any other interested regional groups. The United Nations is certainly imperfect, but it is the best organization that we have to orient this unpredictable world of the third millennium towards a culture of peace and international solidarity and also along the path of development. There are many labours left unfinished: the reform of the Security Council, the new tasks of the Trusteeship Council, the revitalization of the Economic and Social Council, the increase in possibilities for peacekeeping operations, among others. We have a great chance to change this world so transformed by globalization. Do not forget, however, that at the end of this century marked by the worst excesses of humanity, the United Nations represents our charitable spirit and at its centre there is not a machine, but human beings, albeit exceptional ones: the first among them, Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General; Didi Opertti, the outgoing President of the General Assembly, whom we thank with all our hearts for work well done; Theo-Ben Gurirab, the new President, whom we congratulate on his election; and many other persons who bring their individual beliefs to this common house for humanity. It comforts us to think not about systems, but rather about those people who, indefatigable, work for a better world. Let us therefore have the optimism to believe in our species. For I believe that, as the Nobel Prize Winner William Falkner said: “man will not merely endure: he will prevail. He is immortal, not because he alone among creatures has an inexhaustible voice, but because he has a soul, a spirit capable of compassion and sacrifice and endurance.”  The unanimous election of Mr. Gurirab to the presidency of the General Assembly at this fifty-fourth session is a warm tribute to Namibia and its heroic people, who are well- known for their victorious struggle against foreign domination and for their tireless defence of the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. As I am familiar with his skill and broad experience of international relations, I believe that under his wise leadership the work of the General Assembly at this session will be crowned with success. I should also like to take this opportunity to express my sincere congratulations to Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General of our Organization, for his work to reform and revitalize the United Nations, as well as for his steadfast commitment in the service of peace and development throughout the world. As this century of rapid change fades away, we are confronted with challenges, but also presented with many opportunities. Globalization has become a problem throughout the world. While technological progress and the globalization of production and finance have brought prosperity and modernity to many countries, particularly in the developed world, the great majority of people are still living in conditions of persistent poverty. The protection of the environment, the eradication of poverty and the struggle against drugs and all forms of terrorism have also become urgent problems requiring concerted action at global level. In the face of this situation it is more urgent than ever for the international community to adopt concrete collective measures to enable the United Nations to devote more of its resources to social and economic development in order to build a better life for all the world’s peoples, in particular for the poorest among them. If it is to take up these challenges, the United Nations, as the only universal international organization, needs the capacity to act and to adapt to a new and changing world situation. With the end of the bipolar world, many countries, especially developing countries, had hoped that the nuclear era would end as well. Here, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, along with the other countries members of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), signed the Treaty on the Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone, which entered into force in 1997. It also endorsed the joint declaration of 9 June 1998, subscribed to by the Foreign Ministers of Brazil, Egypt, Ireland, Mexico, New Zealand, Slovenia, South Africa and Sweden, the objective of which was to revitalize nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament efforts. Such positive steps will help us together gradually to build a world free of nuclear weapons, thus creating meaningful guarantees for the survival of mankind. To guarantee peace, to promote the development of all countries, and to adapt to a new world situation, the Organization must be reformed so that it can fulfil its mandate and achieve its purposes. Here in the United Nations, all countries have equal standing, in conformity with the principle of the sovereign equality of States. And here in the United Nations, we extol the principles of the non-use or threat of use of force against the independence or sovereignty of States, of the peaceful settlement of disputes, and of non-interference in the internal affairs of other States. In speaking of United Nations reform we cannot pass in silence by the delicate work under way in the Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council and Other Matters Related to the Security Council, where a number of interesting initiatives have been put forward. Our position on this matter is well known, and was set out at the fifty-first session of the General Assembly: we favour an increase in both the permanent and the non-permanent membership, in line with the principle of equitable geographical distribution and taking into account the prominence of the country in question. As part of the effort to attain that goal, some countries — such as, in particular, Japan, Germany and India — could become permanent members of a restructured Security Council. As we all know, the question of Council reform is not a simple one. We need to be patient, to continue the debate and to take advantage of the momentum we have created, so as to attain the 3 goal of giving that organ greater transparency, legitimacy and, above all, credibility. True to its consistent policy of peace, friendship and cooperation, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic considers that the use of force against a sovereign independent State without Security Council authorization, no matter what the pretext, runs counter to international law and the Charter of the United Nations. We believe that all conflicts, no matter how complex, should be resolved only through negotiations. Convinced of the importance of peace in the Middle East, my country is pleased that Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization have resumed serious negotiations, which led to the signing of the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum on 4 September 1999. It is essential for the parties directly concerned to continue those negotiations in order to settle their problems on the basis of existing resolutions and agreements. This would open the path to peace, cooperation and peaceful coexistence among the peoples of the region. Among the glaring injustices in the world, we cannot forget the economic, trade and financial blockade that has been waged for more than 40 years against the Republic of Cuba. We consider that the United States ought to put an end to that operation, which runs counter to the present world trend towards international economic cooperation for development. Peace on the Korean peninsula remains fragile. We appeal to all the countries concerned to show maximal restraint and to continue their dialogue with a view to restoring mutual understanding, and together to seek solutions that would meet the aspirations of the Korean people for the peaceful reunification of the two parts of Korea, and that would contribute to the consolidation of peace, stability and cooperation in the region. Since 9 July 1999 we have seen renewed tension in the Taiwan Strait. The Lao People’s Democratic Republic reaffirms its consistent position that Taiwan is an integral and inalienable part of China, and that the Government of the People’s Republic of China is the sole legal and legitimate representative of the entire Chinese people. Over the past two years, the financial crisis affecting the whole of South-East Asia has quickly made itself felt, to varying degrees, in other regions — indeed, throughout the world. In some countries there are today signs of an economic upturn, but nothing indicates that the world economy is yet on the road to solid recovery. In the light of that crisis and of the fact that countries large and small, industrialized and developing, are becoming increasingly interdependent, the international community must work together to find an effective solution to the crisis, to promote worldwide growth, and to bring about sustained social and economic development. Since the 1995 Copenhagen World Summit for Social Development, the struggle against impoverishment has been bolstered. But it is clear that developing countries, especially the least developed among them, cannot accomplish this huge task on their own and without the necessary support and assistance of the international community. In that context, we consider that the special follow-up meeting that will take place in 2000 will give the international community an opportunity to review the situation and to take the measures necessary to attain the noble goals set at the Summit. For years, the special problems of landlocked developing countries have been discussed at various international conferences and meetings. Although many measures have been taken both at the national and at the international levels, those problems are still far from being resolved. The President took the Chair. The Lao People’s Democratic Republic, which has the honour of chairing the Group of Landlocked Developing Countries, is cooperating actively with the other member countries to establish and maintain an effective and self-sustaining system of transport and transit. This huge task requires support and assistance from the entire international community in order for our countries to meet our particular needs. It is more than urgent that the recommendations adopted last August in New York at the fourth meeting of governmental experts from landlocked and transit developing countries and representatives of donor countries, and financial and development institutions, be wholly translated into reality as soon as possible. In the Lao People’s Democratic Republic over the past year, the multi-ethnic Lao people has strongly unified itself and is actively working for national development, particularly in the area of agricultural production. This has made it possible for us not only to achieve self- sufficiency in rice production, but also to have something of a surplus in reserve. This achievement has helped soften the effects of the economic and financial crisis in 4 the region. Throughout the country, political stability and social harmony, important conditions allowing us to promote sustained national socio-economic development in keeping with the policy of renewal, continue to be ensured. At the international level, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic is continuing its efforts to strengthen and extend its external relations and cooperation, particularly with neighbouring countries, and it is cooperating with other members of the Association of South-East Asian Nations in the implementation of the Hanoi Plan of Action and of the Vision 2020 for the progress and the prosperity of the region. The question of drugs continues to be a major concern in the daily life of South-East Asia. In this respect, my Government has made great efforts to reduce the annual production of opium and is carrying out a vigorous battle against drugs, the results of which have been greatly appreciated by the international community. At this time, in cooperation with the United Nations International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP), we are working out a strategy for a substantial eradication of opium production over the next six years. In this connection, I appeal to the international community to contribute to the Fund UNDCP in order to achieve those objectives. Saving future generations from the scourges of war, poverty, hunger and sickness remains an essential objective enshrined in the United Nations Charter. Aware of this highest goal, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic will spare no effort to make its modest yet positive contribution.   First of all, permit me to congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Namibia, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly. I would also like to express words of gratitude to Mr. Didier Opertti Badán for his dynamic and competent work during the entire course of the preceding session. For the United Nations, last year — if it were measured by the magnitude of military and political upheavals — would be equal to a calendar year that thrust upon mankind natural calamities that had catastrophic effects on people. In many respects it was a year from which we had to draw lessons. It made us ponder seriously the political survival of States and the physical protection of people. It made us take a fresh look at the system of international relations, which was helpless in the face of the new challenges of the times. Nowadays we can no longer write everything off as costs of the cold war. That is why we have paid special attention to the part of the Secretary-General’s report in which he tried to give a analysis of present-day conflicts. Those conflicts, because of the nature of their origins and the dynamics of their evolution, did not always yield to traditional forms and methods for their successful resolution. There is a fact described in the report that requires special consideration, namely, that over the past decade 90 per cent of armed conflicts took place inside States and not between them. This phenomenon shows how relevant the problem of statehood is, as well as defining the correct orientation, in choosing the road to development in today’s world. The preservation of national unity, inter-ethnic harmony and social guarantees, coupled with a reasonable pace of reform, can today be considered as the basic universal criteria for ensuring the peaceful development of every nation. This statement is substantiated by the experience of our newly independent State, which managed to avoid many cataclysms in the difficult period of its emerging statehood. This is the eighth time that Turkmenistan has taken part in a session of the General Assembly as an independent subject of international relations. Without the active support of our friends, it would be hard to imagine the state of Turkmenistan’s development today, which allows us to look with optimism at the future and to establish long-term programmes of social and economic development. In this regard, we are grateful to our close neighbours — Iran, Russia, Turkey, Pakistan, China and India — and our partners in the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. From a conceptual point of view, the system of Turkmenistan’s international relations is based on sincerity and reciprocity of mutual interests, neutrality and non-alignment, which form the two pillars of our statehood. I would like to avail myself of this opportunity to express words of gratitude to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and to emphasize its large-scale activities, which merit all-round support. The Government of Turkmenistan, together with UNDP, has undertaken a number of major national projects that have yielded concrete results in the reforms of the social sphere, public health, the system of education and other areas. Turkmenistan intends to continue to maintain close ties with that important agency of the United Nations, with the aim of identifying and implementing new opportunities for cooperation. In view of the major development tasks lying ahead, UNDP personifies for us the United Nations system as a whole. Purposeful cooperation between specialized agencies of the United Nations and national Governments makes it possible to identify the main parameters of the conflict- prevention strategy in each individual region. Ever- increasing flows of refugees and displaced persons to 44 neighbouring countries from conflict areas and zones of national disasters are fraught with a certain potential for tension. As regards this important matter, we attach great importance to the work of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). The Government of Turkmenistan, together with UNHCR, is implementing an ad hoc programme of assistance to refugees that is based on a joint plan of action. In close relation to the above subject, I would like to draw attention to the situation in Afghanistan, which continues to cause serious concern. Historically, Turkmenistan had close fraternal ties with that long- suffering nation. Hence, we have a sincere interest in the re-establishment of peace and the restoration of Afghanistan. Since the first days of independence, Turkmenistan built its relations with Afghanistan on the basis of mutual trust and respect. Our position is absolutely transparent and clear: neutrality with respect to the parties to the conflict; a constructive attitude towards and a due accounting of the realities of today’s Afghanistan; a desire to engage conflicting parties in a dialogue; and creative economic reconstruction programmes. It is precisely this desire that underpinned our initiative of holding two rounds of direct inter-Afghan talks in Ashgabat early this year, which were supported by the two key factions and bore fruit, giving hope for the future. However, in our opinion, this process did not receive adequate support from the outside, from those who are more prone to making declarations of good intentions and advancing their own interests rather than taking practical steps to help the Afghan people. Turkmenistan has been working on the Afghan issue and will continue to work on it under any format of international cooperation, including the mechanism of the “six plus two” group under the auspices of the United Nations, as that mechanism possesses an enormous untapped potential. We all have grounds to raise this issue because we have actually encountered a situation that may not be the best one for the United Nations, which has financed a Special Mission in Afghanistan — a Mission that until now has failed to produce any practical results. Smoothly written reports should not substitute for real political work in the field. We share a commonly held view that the United Nations system needs rational reform in the twenty-first century. The Millennium Assembly, on the theme of the United Nations in the twenty-first century, will become a major landmark in this process, and Turkmenistan wholeheartedly supports the idea of holding such a session. That Assembly could provide a unique opportunity to identify the problems that we will face in the future and to undertake a creative process of strengthening and enhancing this unique institution. Statements by heads of delegations at the current session contain many ideas regarding the need to reform the United Nations and the Security Council and to balance the right of veto, among many others. Turkmenistan adheres to the view that while seeking to improve the situation, the most important thing is to take a well-considered and balanced approach to the solution of the issues concerning the destiny of the Organization, rather than cause it harm by becoming hostage to emotions. It is our opinion that while encountering some glitches in the work of the mechanism, we should not rush into its complete replacement but should try to properly diagnose the weakness in the available resources. It may be a case of the problem not being in the system itself, but rather in those who are called to represent it at various levels. Turning once again to the problem of the elaboration and implementation of a system to prevent conflicts and ensure safe development, I would like to emphasize that the foreign policy course of neutrality pursued from the outset by Turkmenistan has always been aimed at precisely this goal. It is explicitly mentioned in the Secretary-General’s report that the struggle for control over economic resources is one of the main causes of conflicts. Therefore the implementation of the foreign policy initiative concerning Turkmenistan’s permanent neutrality, in the form of a special resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 12 December 1995, has a very important meaning in this regard. The development of the extremely rich hydrocarbon resources of the Caspian basin is tied to the interests not only of regional countries but also to those of major Powers and transnational companies. Turkmenistan’s neutrality is aimed at a situation of combined rather than conflicting interests. We believe that in today’s world there can, and should, exist zones of interest, but we resolutely oppose the concept of spheres of influence. The issue concerning the status of the Caspian Sea is highly relevant in this respect. We have on numerous occasions stated our position on this issue: we would like to prevent the work on the status of the Caspian Sea from turning from an international law problem into a political problem. In any case, we consider it appropriate at this forum to draw attention to this issue, so that we can avoid the politicization of issues concerning the legal definition and development of the energy resources of the sea and 45 underline Turkmenistan’s readiness for constructive partnership and clearly defined reasonable compromises. The highly complex nature of the tasks facing States Members of the United Nations is clear. The momentous challenges confronting the Organization are commensurate with the hopes of people around the globe, who believe that real change for the better will take place with the change of epochs. This concerns both large and small nations, the rich and the poor, newly independent and long-existing States. We all face challenges that can be overcome only by means of collective efforts, recognizing at the same time individual responsibilities. Such is the logic of Turkmenistan’s political behaviour and its readiness to be an active Member of the Organization. The fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations takes place at a time marking humanity's crossing into the next millennium. It emerges as a link in the long chain of tumultuous events that have reshaped the map of the family of nations. 12 The United Nations was born against the backdrop of the destruction and desolation of the Second World War, the most bitter, deadly and inhumane war known to mankind. The descent of the Nazi regime to the depths of evil was like an eclipse in the history of civilization and will be recalled in history as a nightmare in which man created the devil, who wreaked devastation, destruction, terror and annihilation upon the world. The stand taken by the Allied forces against the Nazi monster, and the creation of the United Nations in April 1945, on the verge of the defeat of the forces of destruction, was an act that marked the return of humanity to its senses, to salvage the future of mankind. In this month when we mark 60 years since the outbreak of the most horrible of wars, we are strengthened more than ever in our sense of hope and confidence in the necessity of the United Nations and of its activities throughout the world. The various agencies of the United Nations work to enhance world health and tend the sick; to supply the needy with food and nourishment; to build bridges between cultures; to promote education and overcome ignorance; to instil hope into the lives of refugees and displaced persons; and to assist the victims of disasters, whether natural or man-made. The soldiers of the United Nations forces are the true peacekeepers of our age. In its corps are soldiers from all the nations of the world. At times they risk their lives in areas riddled with conflict and violence around the world, whether their United Nations mandate is to make peace or to be observers that safeguard the peace. These distinctions, important as they may be to the policy makers and shapers of international relations, have no meaning to the individual United Nations soldier, posted far from his country, who brings hope and tranquillity to places fraught with tragedy, suffering and violence. After many centuries of violence and war, of enslavement and destructiveness in the name of murderous ideologies, after decades of cold war and polarized world alliances of the East and the West, the human race is now making great strides down the paths of peace and reconciliation. Before our very eyes, a process is enveloping the world, signalling hope for the future. Mankind is adopting a new path, the path of the prophet Isaiah, who as far back as 2,600 years ago prophesied that the day would come when “they shall beat their swords into ploughshares, and their spears into pruning-hooks: nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more.” (The Holy Bible, Isaiah 2:4) This prophecy — which has been adopted by the United Nations as a source of hope, as the symbol of the victory of the good in human beings over evil — should serve today more than ever as a beacon and a path for all who cherish peace around the world and for their representatives gathered here today. The world has become more open. Satellites, the Internet and telecommunications networks shorten geographical and cultural distances. The political and ideological blocs of the past have disintegrated, and the walls of animosity have fallen along with the tyrants and dictators who built them. They are being replaced by new blocs, some of which are in the process of being created where development and prosperity reign. I hope and believe that these beneficial transformations will also occur in the Middle East. In our region, too, the light of hope has been rekindled. We are now in the midst of a political process, the objective of which is to reach peace between States and reconciliation between peoples. Israel aspires to reach a comprehensive peace with its neighbours, a peace of harmony. Israel will not be satisfied with a merely political or strategic peace. In our eyes, the absence of war is not the peace we aspire to achieve. May I be allowed to emphasize once again that peace means a culture of peace; peace means no more threats of violence, whether implied or categorical; peace entails the end of boycotts, the end of contempt and defamation, the end of incitement and confrontation... peace is also a language of peace: it is the way leaders address their nations, teachers teach their students and religious leaders inspire their followers. At a time when various kinds of religious extremism are rearing their heads and eroding human wisdom and human freedom, it is essential that inter-faith dialogue be strengthened and that the religions be manifested in their enlightened forms, which sanctify tolerance and coexistence. On the way to achieving peace in our region, we often find ourselves confronted with contradictory realities. Parallel to the political process, our negotiating partners are conducting a constant political war against Israel in various international forums, including from the podium of this Assembly. This dualism is inconsistent 13 with the peace process and is intolerable, as are the extreme decisions taken by the Arab League against Israel. These decisions are not in keeping with the spirit of peace, as expressed in the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum. We hoped for and expected a different atmosphere, one that would complement the impetus initiated by the new Government in Israel. We have been saddened to witness events that undermine the essence of peace. These events can be defined only as anti-peace resolutions. Engaging in a peace process, on the one hand, and maintaining anti-Israel declarations and resolutions, on the other, raises some serious concerns about our negotiating partners and their concept of peace. Is it a peace of normalization with open borders, or is it only one of temporary initial recognition? Will our relations with the Gulf and Maghreb countries, such as Morocco, Tunisia, Mauritania, Qatar and Oman, be allowed to expand and develop? Or will these relations remain hostage to mood swings after each and every difficulty in the negotiations or whenever there is disagreement? Continued doubts about these cardinal questions cannot be tolerated in the light of the heavy price and grave risks that Israel is taking upon itself in this process. Three weeks ago, on 4 September, Israel and the Palestinian Authority signed the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum, which for the first time creates a direct, chronological, political and conceptual link between the Interim Agreements and the final status agreement. On 13 September, the final status talks were renewed between Israelis and Palestinians. We are determined to reach a framework agreement that will form the basis of the final status agreement by February 2000, as stated and agreed upon in the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum. In this framework we will select the issues and set an agenda for the final status agreement. The topics at hand are known, as are the differing vantage points and positions of each side. The differences can be resolved only by direct negotiations. Regarding the final status, I wish to affirm from this podium that when we refer to political separation as one of the prime concepts of the permanent settlement, we are also saying that, for the benefit of both sides, we should not necessarily sever ties that are vital to coexistence in the various spheres of living. From Israel’s perspective, there is no competition and never has been any between the different negotiating tracks. Israel also aspires to reach peace with Syria, our neighbour to the north. This is, after all, in the higher common interests of both Israel and Syria. H o w e v e r , along with these common interests, the following point must be made clear: A democratic country like Israel cannot accept a precondition to beginning the talks that requires a prior acceptance of the final outcome as dictated by the extreme and dogged formulas of the opposing side. We must maintain the momentum of good will so that we can face our children, Syrian and Israeli alike, with a clear conscience and say to them in all honesty: We tried everything and did our utmost. I call upon the leaders of Syria, in view of what we have gone through together, to cease hesitating. It is time to talk. Meetings and discussion are not political sacrifices — they are basic necessities. On the road to a comprehensive peace, we wish to see Lebanon join the camp of peacemakers. The anomaly which has developed in its territory must come to an end. We have never had nor do we have now any territorial claims or disputes with Lebanon. Our one and only interest is to guarantee the safety and security of our citizens. I must say that, regrettably, the Government of Lebanon has for many years failed to enforce its sovereignty in the southern part of Lebanon and to disarm Hezbollah. I hope that this situation will improve and that Israel, within the framework of an agreement, will be able to leave the southern part of Lebanon. Nevertheless, with that as our ambition, I wish to emphasize that we will not be held hostage much longer on this track to a stubborn and defiant attitude. We will make our own independent decisions, as we see fit, in order to ensure our protection and our vital interests, taking all options under consideration. A reconciliation between Israel and its neighbours must extend the promise that all the peoples of the region may reap the benefits of peace. Normalization must not be viewed as a one-sided gesture. As a natural outcome of peaceful coexistence, normalization is not in the service of one particular party. It is in the interests of all the nations of the region. We hope to renew the multilateral tracks as early as this year. There is a need for close cooperation in regional multilateral projects. Our region has tremendous potential. In order to fully realize this potential, we must establish a mechanism of true cooperation among the 14 States of the region. This cooperation would clearly be to the benefit of all of us in the region. The scarcity of water in our region, which will only get worse, may impose a new way of life on the inhabitants of the Middle East in the coming years. Israel is anticipating this problem and preparing for it, but in this case, as in others, cooperation in the region is essential and will benefit all sides. The working groups of the multilateral tracks undertook various assignments of primary importance. Unfortunately, their activities have been frozen for irrelevant reasons. This is the time to resurrect them. Any delay or imposed condition is liable to undermine the peace process and delay the aid packages so essential to the peoples of the region. Throughout this important process, on the bilateral and the multilateral tracks alike, we are accompanied by the international community. First and foremost was the United States of America, along with the Russian Federation, the European Union, Canada, Norway, Japan, China and other countries and organizations that have assisted and continue to do so. Their key contributions earn them special commendation from this rostrum. Egypt and Jordan were our first partners in breaking down the walls of enmity and in thawing relations in our region. Improving our relations with Egypt, as well as renewing the multilateral tracks, are essential to furthering the common objectives of the nations in our region. T h e relations between Israel and Jordan are an example of appropriate and favourable relations between neighbouring countries. We intend to strengthen and broaden the relations between the two nations in the economic, social and political realms. As we march further along the difficult path of making peace, we look back with sorrow and sadness as we remember the pioneers who broke new ground and are no longer with us today: the late Menachem Begin, Anwar Saddat, Yitzhak Rabin, King Hussein and King Hassan II of Morocco. Their vision and their work inspire us to continue to work towards completing their enterprise of peacemaking. We cannot afford to be disillusioned. Our region is neither North America nor Benelux. Even as we negotiate the peace process, we remain aware of the threats and dangers directed against us, threatening the stability of the entire region. The mix of extreme fundamentalism, on the one hand, and of the potential use of weapons of mass destruction, on the other, threatens the peace, stability and future of the entire region. This threat is not just an element of academic debates in the study of international relations, but a harsh reality which we must all face. From this international platform, I call for a halt to all technological, scientific and other kinds of assistance to countries looking to obtain unconventional weapons, while threatening the existence of the State of Israel and the region as a whole. The Persian Gulf War demonstrated that leadership lacking reason and stability poses a threat to all the countries in the region and to the world at large. The monitoring groups and machinery in Iraq must be immediately resumed. That is the obligation of the international community so long as the Iraqi regime seeks non-conventional weapons and threatens the region. The United Nations is the largest, most authoritative and most recognized international body. It should therefore be the one to take the initiative and the responsibility in curbing this danger. Terrorism is an additional strategic enemy and we cannot come to terms with its existence. It is a threat not only to Israel, but to many other nations across the world as well. Terror knows no borders or civilized rules. There can be no coexistence with terror, either in the context of the negotiations conducted by Israel with its neighbours, or in the broader regional context. Anyone who believes that terror is a nuisance which can be tolerated is mistaken. Terror is in essence a strategic threat. A synthesized, coordinated and unrelenting approach must be adopted against it. Here, in this building of stone and glass, reflecting the current image of our world today with its points of light and shadows of darkness, counterparts and enemies meet as friends and allies in the creation of a forum for discussion and coexistence. Discussion is the way to resolve conflict. It is also the way of tomorrow. Dialogue and common language are the tools of diplomacy, the raw material for the creation of a new reality and the foundation for a stable and safer society. It was here in the General Assembly, at the beginning of the decade, that I first met with my Chinese counterpart. After 40 years of total dissociation between our two countries, we endeavoured to re-establish diplomatic relations between Israel and China. It was also here that we laid the groundwork for establishing ties with the former Soviet Union, as well as with India, Nigeria and other States. These are only a few examples 15 demonstrating the possibility in this arena for building a bridge between nations and States. As a nation that experienced great difficulties, overcome only by accelerated development efforts, the State of Israel takes part in the international effort to aid others and share knowledge, experience and technology, experience which it has accumulated in various fields. The nation of Israel is proud of its ancient tradition of sharing and identifying with the world at large. Through the Division for International Cooperation within the Israeli Foreign Ministry, Israel maintains ongoing projects and a broad range of training courses in Israel. We have demonstration units and we are conducting research. For example, a special medical centre was recently established in Mauritania and serves the many citizens of that State who suffer from chronic eye problems. Similarly, Israel invests great efforts and resources in training professionals to acquire the skills and abilities necessary for meeting the various challenges that engage many parts of the world. In the more than 40 years since its inception, the Division for International Cooperation has trained more than 70,000 trainees from more than 120 countries, who have come to Israel and attended its training courses in the areas of agriculture, water resources, health and medicine, science, education and others. In 1998 alone, some 155 courses were held in Israel on a variety of topics, with the participation of more than 4,000 trainees. Gladly, I can report that many of the trainees were from Middle Eastern countries. Fully 820 Palestinians participated in these courses over the past year, thereby helping to strengthen the bridges of peace which have been built between Israelis and Palestinians. In the same year, Israel ran more than 150 courses in over 60 different countries, with the participation of over 7,000 trainees. I am proud to point out that in many of the countries to which we sent Israeli experts, the local personnel managed to translate our goodwill into positive results on the ground, to the benefit of their people and their land. Because of the reputation it has acquired, the Division for International Cooperation is also one of the central addresses in Israel to which people can turn in times of disaster around the world. We have recently witnessed just how essential such assistance can be in times of natural disasters. Israel has always responded favourably to requests for aid and relief, regardless of the political context or the state of diplomatic relations. We wish to support and commend the United States of America, our friend and ally, an inspiration to us all in its efforts to promote the values of cooperation among nations. This is also the time to express our appreciation to the United States for its intensive efforts to bring true peace to the Middle East. Even today in the United States we have witnessed again a new resort to the threat of boycott. The case at hand is the threat to declare a boycott against the American company Disney, because the company dared to allow Jerusalem to be portrayed in an exhibition celebrating the millennium. We condemn these threats and the use by certain Arab States of this anachronistic device. It has no place here or anywhere else in the world. Over thousands of years, since the time of biblical King David, the builder of Jerusalem, until the present day, Jerusalem has not served as the capital of any other nation in the world besides the nation of Israel, the Jewish people. Even after our forced exile from the land of Israel, we continued, generation after generation, to stay faithful to Jerusalem. The flame of Jerusalem was carried in our hearts as a hidden source of faith and hope. In our wanderings, in the East and in the West, in the African deserts and on the outskirts of Siberia, from the golden age of Spain through the dark Inquisition, during the prosperous Europe of the romantic era to the charred ashes of the Holocaust, throughout all the above the eyes of the Jews and their prayers have been directed toward Jerusalem. Year after year, from father to son, the anthem of the Jewish nation has constantly been “Next Year in Jerusalem”. With the passing of those previous generations and exiles, we have had the privilege of being deemed worthy to return to Jerusalem, to rebuild the ruins, to rededicate the city as a centre radiating with beauty, open to all followers of all religions, as the poet has said, where freedom of all religions is a fact of life. It is so upsetting then that even today, 51 years since the independence of the State of Israel, there are still those who would deny our natural right to decide the location of our capital, a natural right given to every nation in the world. From Jerusalem, the city of David, I will quote from the original song of David on Jerusalem, 16 in words which transcends the limits of time and retains their meaning in every generation: “Our feet shall stand within thy gates, oh Jerusalem. Jerusalem is built as a city that is bound firmly together.” (The Holy Bible, Psalm 122:2-3) Today, as before, from this podium we declare to the entire world, to our friends and people and those who are distant from us: Jerusalem, unified under Israeli sovereignty, is and will remain forever the capital of Israel. I would like to extend my heartfelt congratulations to Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, 12 Foreign Minister of the Republic of Namibia, on his assumption of the office of President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. I would also like to pay my respects to Mr. Didier Opertti Badán, Foreign Minister of Uruguay, for all his efforts during his tenure as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-third session. It is also my great pleasure to welcome the admission of the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga as new Members of the United Nations. Permit me on this occasion to extend my heartfelt condolences and sympathy to the people of the Republic of Turkey and the people of Greece, who have suffered greatly as a result of the recent earthquakes in those countries. I also express my deep concern regarding the grave damage caused by the earthquake that occurred in Taiwan early in the morning of 21 September, and extend my heartfelt condolences and sympathy to those who have suffered from the disaster. This is the last session of the General Assembly before the Millennium Assembly is convened next year. During the one-year period to come, we must identify the issues, such as conflicts and poverty, which the international community will face in the twenty-first century and find an answer to what role the United Nations should play in addressing these issues. Since its founding in 1945, the United Nations has been dealing with issues of world peace and security, as well as economic and social issues, including development. In the area of peace and security, during the cold-war era, the ability of the Security Council to cope with conflicts was severely restricted. Even under such circumstances, however, the United Nations made creative efforts, such as peacekeeping operations, and achieved certain results in the Middle East and elsewhere. Since the end of the cold war, the number of peacekeeping operations that has been dispatched has increased dramatically, and their mandates have become diversified. Their activities bore fruit, for example, in Cambodia and Mozambique. Regarding the issues of refugees and displaced persons created by conflicts, the humanitarian assistance activities of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and others are highly appreciated. In the economic and social area, the United Nations, along with its specialized agencies, has raised issues, set standards and implemented those standards in every field, including development, the environment, human rights, science and culture. In the area of development, in addition to efforts undertaken through its programmes and funds, including the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations has achieved certain results in coordinating the assistance activities of the international community. The United Nations has, furthermore, played a decisive role in assessing the public opinion of global society. We should hold in high regard such efforts of the United Nations. Fully recognizing the significance of the Organization, the people of Japan regarded their country’s admission to membership of the United Nations as their country’s reinstatement in international society after the Second World War. They have been supporting and contributing to the activities of the United Nations ever since. There is, however, still much to be done by the United Nations in such areas as the prevention and resolution of conflicts and poverty alleviation. It is also important to have fresh viewpoints, including that of human security, in addressing such new issues as those relating to globalization and other global matters. These are the issues we will be passing along to the twenty-first century. One of the most important issues that the United Nations must continue to address is conflict. In Africa, conflicts continue in many regions. Although peace has been restored in Kosovo, the conflict there left deep scars on local communities in the region and on the hearts of the people, demonstrating once again the importance of conflict prevention. Furthermore, numerous challenges exist on the path towards future reconstruction. There are persistent tensions in Asia. While various conflicts have been resolved in Latin America, there is still work to be done to achieve stable post-conflict development, including the development of and the clearing of landmines in the border region between Peru and Ecuador, who reached a peace agreement on their border dispute last year. Regarding the efforts to deal with conflicts, I would like to emphasize the following three points. First, it is important to take a comprehensive approach, which includes conflict prevention and resolution, peacekeeping and peace-building, and the elimination of potential causes of conflict, such as poverty. Secondly, it is necessary to deal with conflicts in a manner that is suitable to the situation in each region. These two points were also made in the report of the Secretary-General entitled “The causes of conflict and the promotion of durable peace and sustainable development in Africa” (A/52/871), which was issued last year. Thirdly, as 13 regards peace-building, it is necessary that international assistance, from post-conflict emergency humanitarian assistance to long-term development aid, be implemented seamlessly. In addition to these efforts, it has become important to ensure the security of personnel who are engaged in humanitarian or development assistance activities. In Africa, the United Nations is cooperating in efforts to bring peace in situations of conflict, such as in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Sierra Leone, and in the border dispute between Ethiopia and Eritrea. Japan will consider extending assistance to the efforts of the United Nations as well as to the reconstruction efforts of the countries concerned. We think that efforts to tackle poverty in Africa also contribute to the prevention of conflicts in the region. With regard to Kosovo, Japan has provided the United Nations Mission in Kosovo with personnel and is actively extending financial support in such areas as humanitarian and reconstruction assistance. It recently dispatched a study mission to explore possible concrete assistance projects. Turning our attention to Asia, we hope that security in East Timor will be restored at the earliest possible date, through the activities of the multinational force working in coordination with the Government of Indonesia and with the Indonesian armed forces. This force is now starting to be deployed on the basis of the Security Council resolution adopted on 15 September. Japan has already announced that it will extend a substantial financial contribution to the multinational force. It is making this contribution with the intention of facilitating the participation of developing countries in the effort. Japan will decide the amount of its contribution after the whole picture of the multinational force becomes clear. The situation of refugees and displaced persons in and outside East Timor causes serious concern. Japan has announced the contribution of a total of $2 million to the activities of UNHCR and the World Food Programme. In addition, it intends to positively consider further assistance after taking into consideration a report from the Government mission now in the region, along with other factors. Furthermore, Japan, in the medium and long term, also intends to provide appropriate assistance for the reconstruction and development of East Timor. As regards conflict prevention, I wish to commend the Organization of African Unity for already launching efforts to establish an early warning system, and, as regards Asia, I would like to commend the ministerial meeting of the Regional Forum of the Association of South-East Asian Nations for its decision last July to discuss concretely how preventive diplomacy might be dealt with. Next, I would like to touch upon three issues that are commonly observed in regions in conflict: small arms, anti-personnel landmines, and refugees and displaced persons. In its efforts to cope with the small arms issue, Japan strongly hopes that the General Assembly will adopt a resolution at this session promoting the recommendations of the report of the Secretary-General drafted by the Panel of Governmental Experts on Small Arms. Japan looks forward to working with other countries for the implementation of those recommendations. Japan will also actively contribute to the successful convening of the international conference on small arms to be held by the end of 2001. On the issue of anti-personnel landmines, with the entry into force last March of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their Destruction, it is now necessary to achieve a universal and effective ban on anti-personnel landmines and to clear the mine areas, while extending assistance to mine victims, among whom are many children. Japan has contributed financial assistance of more than $40 million to international and non-governmental organizations and will continue to strive to achieve the goal of “zero victims” at an early date. With regard to the issue of refugees and displaced persons, Japan highly commends the activities of UNHCR and others and intends to continue to actively cooperate with them. Since the end of the cold war, international efforts have achieved certain results with respect to the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear weapons, and their delivery vehicles — namely, missiles — as well as arms reduction. Yet the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) regime has been challenged by the nuclear testing or secret development of weapons of mass destruction conducted by some States. Japan calls upon the nuclear-weapon and the non- nuclear-weapon States alike to take constructive actions 14 to ensure the successful convening of the Review Conference of the Parties to the NPT next spring. Japan also calls upon the States that have not yet done so to promptly sign and ratify the Comprehensive Nuclear- Test-Ban Treaty so that it can enter into force as soon as possible, and appeals to every country to respect the moratorium on nuclear testing. Further, it is also important to reactivate the START process and promptly to commence the negotiations on the fissile material cut-off treaty. Japan has consistently called for realistic measures for nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament. Every year since 1994, it has submitted to the General Assembly a resolution on nuclear disarmament with a view to the ultimate elimination of nuclear weapons. Late last July, the Tokyo Forum on Nuclear Non-Proliferation and Disarmament, which was established at Japan’s initiative, issued its report, which we believe provides a realistic guideline for progress in nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament. Japan would like to consult actively with other countries with a view to implementing the meaningful recommendations contained in the report. The importance of addressing the issue of weapons of mass destruction other than nuclear weapons, such as biological and chemical weapons, as well as the issue of delivery vehicles, including missiles, is beyond discussion. In particular, Japan will work towards the early conclusion of negotiations on the protocol to the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and on Their Destruction. With regard to the North Korean missile issue, Japan appreciates and welcomes the important progress achieved in the recent United States-North Korea talks. Japan strongly hopes that North Korea’s moratorium on missile launching is further assured. Poverty continues to be a serious issue in many regions of the world. There is a vicious cycle in which the frequent occurrence of regional conflicts exacerbates the problem of poverty, while poverty in turn causes the occurrence and recurrence of regional conflicts. Indeed, poverty should be recognized as the primary issue of the twenty-first century, and it is incumbent upon various players, such as the United Nations, other international organizations, States and civil society, to cooperate towards its eradication. At the Second Tokyo International Conference on African Development, which was co-organized by Japan, the United Nations and others last October, the Tokyo Agenda for Action was adopted, which encourages African countries to take initiatives on their own; calls for the strengthening of cooperation between African countries and developed countries as well as international organizations; and calls for the promotion of cooperation between Asia and Africa. Japan will remain actively engaged with the issue of poverty in Africa through follow-up efforts for the implementation of the Agenda for Action, such as the debt- management seminar which Japan co-organized with the United Nations and others last month in Kenya. Japan has been the world’s largest donor of official development assistance since 1991. Despite the severity of its domestic budgetary situation, it will continue to extend effective, efficient and high-quality official development assistance and will tackle poverty problems through the further promotion of cooperation with the relevant organizations of the United Nations. Debt problems are making it extremely difficult for debtor nations, especially the poorest countries, to achieve development. Japan has provided assistance through debt rescheduling and grant aid for debt relief, and will take comprehensive measures to deal with the debt problem, including the steady implementation of the commitment made at the G-8 summit meeting in Cologne. Important conferences, such as special sessions of the General Assembly, are being held successively in the areas of economic and social development and human rights. The General Assembly’s special session on population and development was held this June, at which meaningful proposals for future action were adopted. The sustainable development of small island developing States, which are susceptible to the effects of climate change and are also geographically vulnerable, is the very important subject of the twenty-second special session to begin on 27 September. The development of landlocked States, which are also geographically disadvantaged, is important as well. The promotion of the implementation of the Copenhagen Declaration and the Programme of Action adopted at the World Summit for Social Development in 1995 will be discussed next year at a follow-up special session. The General Assembly special session entitled “Women 2000” will also be held next year in order to further promote the results of the 1995 Fourth World 15 Conference on Women. Building upon the achievements of these special sessions, Japan intends to contribute actively to international cooperative endeavours in these areas. This is the final year of the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction. The international community must take prompt and concerted action in responding to large-scale natural disasters, as clearly underscored by our experience with the recent earthquakes in Turkey and Greece, last year’s hurricanes in Latin America and the tsunami in Papua New Guinea. The United Nations is required to play a more active role in this endeavour. Moreover, efforts in the area of natural-disaster reduction need to be strengthened. Recognizing the importance of natural disaster reduction in the context of development policy and environmental issues, Japan will promote efforts in this field. With regard to the advancement of globalization, while taking advantage of the new opportunities it provides for the revitalization of the world economy, the improvement in living standards, the creation of jobs, and development, we must also address its negative effects, such as the growing instability in international finance and the widening gap between the rich and the poor. Japan is steadily carrying out financial assistance measures totaling approximately $80 billion, including the New Miyazawa Initiative — by far the largest package of assistance provided by one country — for the East Asian countries which were hard hit by the economic crisis. We strongly expect the economic recovery of the region to resume and that a sound and sustainable development of the world economy will be achieved. We are also concerned that globalization may aggravate such problems as environmental destruction, international organized crime, drug, terrorism and the spread of infectious diseases. These global issues, which transcend national borders and pose direct threats to each and every person, need to be dealt with by the international community as a whole. It is necessary that we adopt policies that give consideration to women, children and others, who are most susceptible to the effect of these global issues. Although globalization also engenders creativity by facilitating interaction among various cultures and different value systems, due consideration also needs to be paid to the cultural diversity of the world. From this standpoint, we consider that the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization will play an even more important role in the coming century. Japan has been stressing the importance of addressing the various issues I have just mentioned by focusing efforts on human security, that is, the protection of the dignity and life of every person against the many threats posed, for example, by poverty; the outflow of refugees; environmental issues; infectious diseases, such as AIDS; human rights violations; international organized crime, including human and drug trafficking; conflicts; anti-personnel landmines and small arms; and terrorism. Last June Japan hosted the International Symposium on Development, at which the issue of how to encourage the self-reliance of individuals to escape from poverty was discussed. On the initiative of Prime Minister Obuchi, Japan established the Human Security Fund within the United Nations to support the activities of international organizations and to promote human security. Japan recently announced its contribution of $100 million for reconstruction and assistance for the return of refugees in Kosovo, and it will implement that assistance through the Human Security Fund and other sources. It cannot be said that the efforts of the United Nations to address the issues that will confront the international community in the twenty-first century are sufficient. Nevertheless, it is not right to claim that the United Nations is incapable of addressing those issues adequately, and therefore disregard it. Neither is it right to simply deplore any attempt to disregard the Organization. In as much as many issues today require efforts of the international community as a whole, and as there is no other universal and comprehensive institution that can replace the United Nations, our only recourse is to reform and strengthen the United Nations, so that it will be capable of dealing with the issues adequately. From this viewpoint, I would like in particular to make the following three points. The first is the need for Security Council reform. During the 50 or so years since the end of the Second World War, the international situation has undergone dramatic changes. Given those changes, the functions of the Security Council, as the body primarily responsible for the maintenance of international peace and security, need to be strengthened. Towards that end, it is essential that the Security Council be re-created to reflect the present international situation, with reform of the composition of both its permanent and non-permanent membership. Japan would like to assume greater responsibilities as a permanent member of the Security Council. 16 Second, there is an urgent need for reforms to place the United Nations on a sound financial base. It is necessary for Member States to fulfil their obligation to pay their assessed contributions, and for the United Nations to work to further control its budget. Despite the severe economic and financial situations, Japan has been faithfully fulfilling its obligation to pay its assessed contribution and has been making substantial contributions to the United Nations and related organizations. However, as the Security Council reform has not been realized, and as the necessary budgetary reforms have yet to be carried out, one cannot but question the fairness of a situation in which Japan is expected to pay an assessed contribution that exceeds the sum of the contributions made by four of the permanent members of the Security Council, not including the United States. Third, it is necessary for the United Nations to strengthen its efforts in the economic and social area, including development. The Organization is expected to obtain the active participation of various actors in addressing problems in the economic and social area, and effectively coordinate their efforts. Japan attaches importance to the role that the United Nations, especially the Economic and Social Council, plays in this area, and is determined, if it is elected this year, to work as a member of the Council towards strengthening the activities of the United Nations in such areas as the coordination between the United Nations agencies, the promotion of dialogue with Bretton Woods institutions and the broad participation by civil society in activities in this area, and coordination of these activities. We have already devoted a significant amount of time to the discussion of United Nations reform. Today there is a common recognition throughout the international community that the reform of the United Nations is necessary. Indeed, there is not a single country that is opposed to reform per se. Nevertheless, progress towards reform is far from satisfactory. The amount of time that has been expended in discussions so far tells of the difficulty that lies in the way of reforming an organization. We must recognize at the very core of our being that if we fail to strengthen the United Nations through reforms, international trust in the Organization will be undermined. This would not only destroy the United Nations, but would be suicidal to all the Member States and the international community as a whole. The Millennium Assembly and the Millennium Summit, scheduled for next year, will provide an occasion on which the United Nations can demonstrate to the world that it is capable of effectively tackling the issues that the international community will face in the twenty-first century. The efforts which Member States make during the one-year period to come could very well determine the viability of the United Nations in the coming century. I would like, therefore, to conclude my remarks by calling upon all Member States to cooperate with each other in pursuing the common interests of the international community as a whole.  Allow me to congratulate you most warmly, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. My delegation is confident that with your vast experience you will steer us through the daunting array of issues before us with great skill. I assure you of the full cooperation and support of my delegation. May I take this opportunity to express our gratitude to His Excellency Mr. Didier Opertti for his leadership and for his contribution to the work of the fifty-third session of the General Assembly. My delegation takes great pleasure in welcoming the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga as they assume their rightful positions in the comity of nations. It is appropriate that, at this final session of the General Assembly of the twentieth century, the United Nations family has been expanded by yet another three Members. We look forward to the valuable contributions they will make to the Organization, and to working closely with them on issues of mutual concern. This century has witnessed perhaps the greatest changes in the annals of civilization, from enormous strides in science and technology to advances in social thought and organization. Yet we continue to witness the worst forms of devastation arising from conflict and from the buildup of destructive capacity. The United Nations was born out of the ashes of the Second World War as a reflection of the desire and aspiration of all people to live in peace and harmony. At this, the last session of the General Assembly before the end of the millennium, it is incumbent upon us to consider whether the United Nations has lived up to the high ideals and expectations of all its Members. The primary objective and responsibility of the United Nations is the maintenance of global peace and harmony on the basis of international law and the sovereign equality of all nations. Even though the United Nations moved swiftly to assume this important responsibility of maintaining peace and security right from its inception, its effectiveness has not been optimal. The end of the cold war raised new hopes and expectations, and renewed efforts to exercise that responsibility. The task has been complex and difficult, and, sometimes, decisive action on some issues has led us to question why there was inaction on others. In our view, the primary mechanism for the maintenance of peace and security must make use of early dialogue aimed at peaceful resolution of differences. The use of force to resolve conflict must be considered with extreme caution; it must be fully within the context of international law and must enjoy the support of all the members of the international community. 25 The United Nations Charter entrusts responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security to the Security Council. While the Council must have the flexibility to act promptly, it, or its individual members, must not operate in isolation. The Council must be responsible to the international community at large and must respond to our collective aspirations for a more representative, relevant and effective Organization. Bhutan associates itself with the position of the Non- Aligned Movement, which maintains that new global realities must be reflected through reform of the Security Council, in terms of both its composition and its working methods. The legitimacy of an increased role and voice for developing countries must find expression in an increased permanent representation on the Council. We trust that deliberations on this matter will proceed within the established framework of General Assembly mechanisms, with the involvement of all Member States and with continued transparency. The threat to international peace and security posed by the abundance of weapons of mass destruction as well as conventional arms has not diminished. Progress on nuclear disarmament can take place only if the legitimate security concerns of all countries are addressed and if there is a firm commitment to the eventual elimination of all such weapons. Equal attention, we believe, must be given also to the regulation of global trade in conventional weapons and small arms. Terrorism continues to jeopardize and undermine human rights, fundamental freedoms and security in a growing number of countries and situations. There is an urgent need to accord greater priority to the elaboration of a comprehensive convention on international terrorism. The global community must enhance cooperation to prevent, combat and eliminate this scourge. Globalization offers unprecedented opportunities for sustained economic development. Paradoxically, the rapid processes of change and adjustment have been accompanied by intensified poverty, unemployment and social disorientation. Fears that current patterns of market-driven globalization may even give rise to further marginalization of developing countries are not altogether unfounded. All these clearly indicate that there is an acute need for balance in order to forge a middle path for the process of globalization. My country welcomes the decision taken at the Cologne Summit in June 1999 by the G-8 aimed at alleviating some of the debt burden of the heavily indebted poor countries. We are hopeful that the effective implementation of this decision will go a long way in supporting national efforts to reduce the debt burden of these countries to more serviceable levels and open for them the opportunities for real and sustained economic growth. While we commend our development partners that have reached or surpassed agreed official development assistance targets, we regret that with a few exceptions, the long-standing commitment to United Nations targets for official development assistance remains largely an unfulfilled goal. In this regard, Bhutan joins other developing countries in underlining the importance of the convening of a high-level conference on the financing of development within the framework of the United Nations. Bhutan recognizes that all parties must exert equal efforts in order to foster a successful development partnership, but it is increasingly concerned by the growing marginalization of least developed countries in global trade, whose share remains below 0.4 per cent. While the least developed countries have taken steps towards economic liberalization and institutional reform, their smooth integration into the global economy must be facilitated through preferential access to markets and assistance for institutional capacity-building and infrastructure development. In this regard, we are heartened by the general sensitivity and responsiveness shown by the World Trade Organization. As a founding member of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) family, Bhutan is committed to further strengthening cooperation in South Asia, where infinitely vast resources and potentials remain locked and unrealized. We have made progress in fostering cooperation, particularly in the social fields, and in strengthening cooperation in the core economic areas. Of special significance is our commitment to establish the necessary mechanisms to enable SAARC to move from a preferential trade arrangement to a free trade arrangement within a reasonable period of time. One of the overriding responsibilities of the United Nations is in the field of socio-economic development. Over the decades, the contributions of the various United Nations agencies have been remarkable, although these have sometimes been taken for granted. It is important that we recognize their contributions and provide them with the necessary resources to effectively continue their support to developing countries. 26 Bhutan has always pursued a people-centred development process. Our national development strategies have always aimed at enhancing gross national happiness rather than merely increasing gross national product. This concept calls not only for economic development in the conventional sense, but for enriching the lives of the people in a holistic way, through the preservation and promotion of our rich cultural heritage, through the protection and conservation of our fragile mountain ecosystem and through the strengthening and exercise of good governance. In pursuit of an equitable balance between material and spiritual development, the Government has consistently allocated a large share of resources over the last four decades for social services. Almost 30 per cent of the present national budget is allocated to the provision of free basic education and primary health care. To these are attributable a substantial jump in our literacy rate — and the advance in enrolment rate — and an increase in life expectancy for the average Bhutanese by 20 years in two decades. We have realized that balanced development is not always the easiest route to take. It entails considerable contemplation, a cautious approach and a deliberate choice of a measured path. It requires patience, restraint and; indeed, courage: patience to persevere over many years in order to reap long-term benefits, restraint and self-control to refrain from fleeting compulsions and courage to sacrifice immediate gains in favour of long- term sustainable development. I would like to seize this opportunity to thank the many worthy members of this Assembly and the various United Nations and other multilateral agencies for their inspiration, cooperation and meaningful support in my country's endeavour to ensure progress and sustained gross national happiness.The men of the Andes scrutinized the skies to decipher and predict the future. If they were looking at the skies today, they might not manage to understand the message written there. On the one hand, there is the promise of unlimited prosperity, with man in apparent control of nature and his environment, thanks to the outstanding strides made in knowledge, the tireless flow of data and financial resources, the almost genetic transformation of the means of transportation and communication, the growing empire of freedom and the reaffirmation of democratic values on a global scale. On the other hand, however, the new millennium is arriving with disquieting signs. Financial crises are increasingly frequent and ever more acute. The gaps between the haves and the have-nots are widening. Confusions, fear and uncertainty prevail over a large part of the planet. Thus must one see both sides of globalization: one of promise, the other of threat. The effects of the two aspects of the process are felt in Latin America with singular intensity. The crisis of the financial markets and the constant decline in commodity prices have struck at the heart of the economies of our societies and subjected them to pressure, in some cases intolerable. Nothing seems to be in its place and few dare to anticipate the future. 8 Nevertheless, the men and women of Latin America have a right to keep hoping. My own country maintains a very cautious optimism. Not many years ago, Bolivia felt with particular intensity the tragedy that is affecting other nations of Latin America. Drug trafficking, the external debt, the collapse of mining and the crisis in the political system all conspired to create a picture of confusion and anguish that seemed to be insurmountable. What we have done since then belongs to history. I shall summarize it here for no other reason than to share our experience, because our task, far from over, seems to have only just begun. Tired of sterile and debilitating political confrontation, Bolivians decided to take the road of cooperation and dialogue. The coalition Governments on which the political system has been based and nurtured since the early 1980s proved the intelligence of an old constitutional norm, but they also showed that the letter of the law is worthless if it is not steeped in the spirit in which it was written. It was in the spirit of questing for consensus that the political Constitution was reaffirmed, the true independence of the National Electoral Tribunal was guaranteed and the Constitutional Tribunal, the Judicial Council and the Office of Ombudsman were established. Lastly, institutions and social organizations were incorporated into the discussions of the major problems affecting the nation in a dialogue that President Hugo Banzer, at the start of his mandate, called on to support the Government’s work with a broad civic consensus. The first conclusion that can be drawn from this rapid summary is that the economy cannot be modernized without a solid base of political reform. Indeed, it was on that political foundation, on the basis of the will of the people represented by the parties, that we were able to make strides in modernizing and opening up the Bolivian economy. We controlled inflation. We renegotiated and reduced the external debt burden. We transferred control of public companies to the private sector, and we created the conditions for the sustained development of Bolivia. However, when we seemed to be achieving the impetus required to launch that development, the Asian crisis and its effects on our region abruptly slowed down the rate of our growth, after almost a decade of a modest increase in per capita income. The storm will pass, undoubtedly, but I cannot deny that the legitimate expectations for development have been affected by this sudden and unexpected return of old fears. We know how Bolivia managed to control its economy, and you have already heard the figures that show how the reserves grew, the way the fiscal deficit was reduced and the mechanism that enabled us to go from an inflation rate of more than 20,000 per cent per year in 1984 to 4 per cent in 1998, just to mention the most significant data. But there are other things that are sometimes overlooked. One is that the process of structural transformation requires perseverance and time. Bolivia persevered, perhaps because it had had difficult experiences. Nevertheless, more than a decade was necessary to come out of that emergency situation. The other element is that what was built in years of sacrifice can be lost in a moment of inattention or rashness. With all the limits and difficulties that were involved in the transition process that began in the early 1980s, the living conditions of Bolivians improved significantly, as we see in the data that was published in the last United Nations Human Development Report. Public spending on education increased from 2.1 per cent of the gross domestic product in 1985 to 5.6 per cent in 1997. Illiteracy in young people under 15 years of age was practically eradicated. Between 1976 and 1997 the mortality rate of breast-fed infants dropped from 144 of every 1,000 live births to 69, and life expectancy grew from 45 to 61 years of age in the same period. However, we have to say that the growth rate is still insufficient and unfair. As in other countries, development was focused on a particular segment of Bolivian society. Therefore the fight against poverty is the main task of the Government of President Bánzer. Thus the cornerstone of that strategy is the active participation of the very sectors that had been ignored in choosing ways and means through an intelligent and active decentralization mechanism. There is full awareness that access to the means of production should be added to the effort that has already been made in allocating resources to social, educational and health policies. At the beginning of the 1980s, when we began the democratic stage I have just described, illicit drug trafficking cast a long shadow over development in Bolivia. At the critical moment of the collapse of tin mining, the cultivation of coca leaves employed thousands 9 of families of unemployed workers and became a major source of income for the Bolivian economy. Even worse, however, was that the risk that drug trafficking would infiltrate the economic and political system became a real possibility. The situation today is radically different. Bolivia will emerge from this coca-cocaine cycle in the next three years, within the timetable President Bánzer set for himself when his mandate began in the face of the scepticism of all, friends and critics. In August 1997, the land occupied by coca plantations exceeded 40,000 hectares. In the 25 months of the implementation of the Dignity Plan, 25,000 hectares have been removed and the remaining 15,000 will be eliminated in the time-frame planned, or earlier. The undeniable success of that plan can be explained by the conviction of the Bolivian people that the drug-trafficking cancer had to be eradicated from the body of national society. President Bánzer had the merit of interpreting that decision and of making it concrete, making it an irrevocable State policy. He applied it without altering even a millimetre of the structure of democratic institutions and without breaking the spirit of civil peace and security which my country fortunately enjoys. The occasional moments of friction that arose in the beginning were brought under control, and the police forces were required to carry out their tasks with the utmost respect for human rights. The international community has pointed to the Bolivian strategy as one of the most successful and pragmatic ones of the continent. I must say, nevertheless, that the task has not been completed, and its support is essential to create sources of work and productive and legal development opportunities for the farmers who are no longer involved in the cultivation of coca leaves. Only in that way can we claim victory. The century ends in Latin America with the good news of the peace agreement between Ecuador and Peru and the announcement that very soon Chile and Peru will end years of patient work in order to resolve the matters pending from the 1929 treaty. These are very important events, to which we must add the treaties through which Argentina and Chile resolved their disputes along their extensive border. In that way, the countries of this part of South America altered the legacy of confrontation and conflict that men of other times and circumstances left behind. However, there is still an open wound in the conscience of America, the injustice of the landlocked situation of Bolivia, which has existed for more than a century. Members know very well how Bolivia lost the extensive coastal strip that it enjoyed when it achieved independence and the enormous cost that loss represents for the development of my country. It is, undoubtedly, one of the main reasons for Bolivia’s backwardness, as I pointed out in my message last year with more detail and precision. I can affirm that my country has made all possible efforts to find a friendly and peaceful solution to its landlocked situation. We have left no stone unturned in every forum in which Bolivia participates. We uphold our request for sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean in irrefutable legal, historical, political and economic arguments. With ever greater dedication and perseverance, my country sought contact and direct negotiations with Chile in order to find within dialogue a friendly solution that would meet the needs of both countries. In the twentieth century alone, we began at least five bilateral negotiations. Unfortunately, none were successful, for reasons which I do not have to point out now. I mention them only to show that this path has been explored with the support of countries friendly to Chile and Bolivia, and that Chile formally agreed to grant Bolivia a sovereign outlet to the Pacific Ocean and that route is known. Now, at the threshold of a new century, Bolivia has decided to insist on calling for direct dialogue, a dialogue which would encompass all the themes in our relations with Chile. I trust that very soon we will define, with Chancellor Valdés, the terms of that dialogue, which, in my opinion, should encompass the complete range of our relations and identify ways for the economic, cultural and political cooperation which will unite our nations when Bolivia recovers its maritime attribute. The experience of the past does not discourage us. New times, new men, new realities must bring along with them new solutions. That is our hope. The United Nations system, one of the most important creations of the century, is at the threshold of a new millennium and is subjected to many tensions. Its function as a channel for official development assistance has remained constrained by the privatization of financing and technology groups which go from advanced countries to emerging markets. 10 Its role as a forum for negotiation and dialogue between the North and the South and between developed countries and developing countries is being disregarded for a new and different structure which revolves around essentially technical mechanisms, such as the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the World Trade Organization, in which negotiations are different from what they were in the past. Its very role as a collective security system sometimes seems at times eclipsed by the unilateral action of countries or groups of countries intent on making their agenda prevail over the world mechanism. I mention these changes here simply as an argument in support of the need to think about the reform of the system, as a process of creating it anew, and not simply an attempt to stop the clock because of a nostalgic vision. I am convinced that this is the view of the statesmen who represent the United Nations and whose patient yet persevering work will bear fruit sooner rather than later. Bolivia, of course, as always, is ready to make its firm contribution.  I congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly; it is a sure guarantee of success for the fifty-fourth session. I also wish to thank your predecessor, Didier Opertti, the Foreign Minister of Uruguay, for his exemplary management of the Assembly's work during the past year. On the many issues facing the General Assembly in the year to come, Italy shares and supports the statement made yesterday by the Foreign Minister of Finland speaking on behalf of the European Union. The last few years of this century have disproved the notion that people and human freedoms take second place to State sovereignty. In Kosovo and East Timor a coalition of States resorted to the use of force, but not for self-seeking national interests, not to defend their borders, not to impose new hegemonies. The end of the nuclear nightmare has coincided with a rampant proliferation of local conflicts, terrorist acts and traumatic economic and financial crises. Can the end of communism have given peace to former cold-war enemies and conflict to the rest of the world? The cold war brought a precarious, imperfect peace. Was that preferable to the tragic series of conflicts that have embroiled humanity over the past 10 years? The division of Europe helped neutralize tensions throughout the planet. Does this mean that nuclear weapons brought about a period of unprecedented stability, and — as some have suggested, paradoxically — that we should award the Nobel Peace Prize to the bomb? The breakdown of the former international order has created a plethora of new States. Does this mean that dividing the world in two was the only way to grant common citizenship to peoples and religious groups that have never learned the art of peaceful coexistence? The international community now takes military action to deal with tragedies that only a few years ago would have left us indifferent, and yet we are still influenced by military assessments, strategic interests, regional solidarity, public opinion and the magnitude of any human rights violations. How can we act according to more precise rules, based primarily on the duty of States to protect the rights of individuals? The crises that have broken out in recent years have raised agonizing dilemmas and difficult questions that demand answers. It would be wrong to use the imperfections of the international system as an excuse for inaction. But it would also be wrong to ignore the new demands for certainty and the rule of law: the greatest challenge is how to relate authority to law and lay down codes of conduct and political discipline that reconcile power with legitimacy. Allow me to articulate a set of principles that could guide our action in the new century. First, we should enhance crisis prevention rather than conflict suppression. Secretary-General Kofi Annan has rightly observed that 19 we must eradicate the cultural and economic causes of conflicts and that a culture of conflict prevention must prevail over the culture of conflict suppression. We know what these causes of conflict are: the huge gap between the living standards and incomes of different classes and nations; the exponential increase in mass migration from poor to rich countries; cultural difference and the conflicts and fanaticism it triggers; criminal acts for the sake of glorifying or even creating a nation. These are the four horsemen of the contemporary Apocalypse. Secondly, we should use force only as a last resort. Arms should be used to stop criminal behaviour only when economic and political instruments are inapplicable or have failed. Ten years ago, these same instruments brought down totalitarian communism, which was a more formidable enemy than today's tyrants. In the Balkans and in East Timor, peacekeeping operations were launched to address serious, massive and systematic violations of human rights. The decisions to intervene were made after repeated demands that the culprits end a state of illegality; after an exhaustive and fruitless search for a diplomatic solution; and by a group of States rather than by a single Power. We are living in an age of unfinished wars. In Iraq as in Serbia, authoritarian rulers have been seriously weakened, but they are still in power. How and how much can sanctions be used to replace or complement the use of force? Perhaps we need clearer international strategies and rules that pay heed to the most vulnerable members of society, to the political opposition and to the risk of strengthening despots through sanctions. Our focus should be more on incentives than on sanctions. Thirdly, we need to define rules. No one knows the size or shape of the next challenge. But our response must be dictated by respect for universal principles rather than by a balance of power. We must beware of conjuring up the spectre of international law as the law of the strongest. We must beware of making some countries more equal than others. To do so would run counter to our best political and cultural traditions, in which the law is meant to protect the weak. The Western world and the Euro-Atlantic institutions are no threat to anyone's integrity, prosperity and freedom. But we must perfect the instruments that uphold the international rule of law. We must spell out the duties of States. We must create a fully fledged corpus of case law on universal human rights. We must work out rules and procedures that will justify the erosion of sovereignty in the name of global responsibility. This is why every country must make it a priority to ratify the international instruments for safeguarding human rights. I am thinking in particular of the International Criminal Court, which was instituted in Rome in June of last year. These instruments should be reflected in our national legislation and practice. Finally, we should encourage the involvement of our own institutions. It is in this spirit that we have invited the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mrs. Mary Robinson, to address the Italian Parliament. Until human rights are firmly institutionalized, doubts will remain over the relationship between legitimacy and effectiveness. The gradual construction of universal citizenship is a learning process to which we all should contribute. Otherwise we shall be racing towards fragmentation, seeking forms of independence that are not economically viable and that are vulnerable to others' desire for hegemony. Fourthly, we must learn to appreciate the judgement of others. I would like to quote, in this respect, one of the founding fathers of American democracy, James Madison. He said: “An attention to the judgement of other nations is important to every government for two reasons. The first one is that, independently of the merits of any particular plan or measure, it is desirable, on various accounts, that it should appear to other nations as the offspring of a wise and honourable policy. The second is that, in doubtful cases, particularly where the national councils may be warped by some strong passion or momentary interests, the presumed or known opinion of the impartial world may be the best guides that can be followed.” Today's world has acquired a new sensitivity. It will no longer tolerate the oppression of the weak. This implies a rethinking of the principles of national sovereignty and non-interference that have governed the community of nations for over three centuries, beginning in Europe. But we must avoid double standards, applying one yardstick to friendly countries and another to those that are not. This is what makes the ultimate sanction of the United Nations so indispensable, since an international legal standard cannot — except in exceptional temporary situations — be the prerogative of any single group of States. 20 When we defend the rights of others, we cannot pretend that the lives of our own people are not also at risk. By the same token, it would be inconsistent not to place the same value on other human lives as we do on our own. Every culture and tradition must be involved in the defence of liberties and freedom. We cannot ignore the regional dimension of human rights, whose inviolable universal character can be enriched by the varieties of historic experiences. But stalemates and the paralysis of intersecting vetoes must be avoided by anchoring even the strongest States to a system of rules and principles, balancing their power against the effectiveness and strength of the international institutions. Fifthly, we should strengthen the institutions. The aftermath of the cold war has proved that large political and economic groupings can more easily guarantee ethnic coexistence, religious tolerance and economic advancement. This should be kept in mind whenever pressure builds to release the genie of self-determination from the bottle of State sovereignty. Only the great institutions, whether regional — such as the European Union and the Atlantic Alliance — or universal — such as the United Nations — can close the gap between democratic codification of laws and their effective enforcement. Unless we have a strong institutional network, every peacekeeping operation could end up looking as if we were taking the law into our own hands. Everyone would feel as if he should look out only for his own security, leading to a proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Therefore, let us resume the disarmament talks, as President Clinton proposed in his statement yesterday, and place our common security on more solid foundations. There is one lesson to be learned from these years of turmoil: actions to prevent and repress the most serious violations of human rights may take precedence over respect for national sovereignty. No Government can hide behind the shield of its own borders. Legitimacy demands the redefinition of relations between States and the international community. It demands the reformulation of the principle of non-interference, which has sometimes allowed States to neglect their duties towards their citizens. Although the United Nations is an organization of States, the rights and the ideals it protects are those of individuals. I have listed some rules that will help redefine coexistence among peoples through the work of the United Nations. We live in a world in which threats against one group immediately affect every other group and impel them to take responsibility, a world in which the concept of non-interference can no longer be invoked to obstruct action in the face of serious violations of fundamental rights. We must ask ourselves how to address all these changes, for the sake of closer and more equitable international cooperation. Of course, States will continue to have different perceptions of national interests, and there will be a continued need to reconcile them peacefully. But for the United Nations to meet the challenges of the new century, our codes of conduct must be placed within a more solid institutional framework. The United Nations Security Council should be made more representative and democratic in composition, in line with proposals of a number of Member States. All the citizens of the world should be able to identify themselves with the United Nations and feel a part of its decision-making and law- making processes; this for the sake of universal sovereignty, which is not the prerogative of a few, but the right of all. The cold war represented an international order dominated by two super-Powers and held in check by nuclear weapons. Today’s world is economically more united, but politically more divided. The watchword of the economy is deregulation. But politics requires rules if we do not want anarchy to prevail. Unlike the market, in politics no invisible hand can generate peace and prosperity. What we need is a visible hand that enacts rules and regulations, and obliges States to respect them, both beyond their borders and in the treatment of their citizens. Let us make the United Nations the visible hand of peace and prosperity. This may be the greatest challenge awaiting us. We must face it together, here in this forum, and place it at the centre of the upcoming debate on the role of the United Nations in the twenty- first century. I wish to express my pleasure at your recent election, Mr. President. I also wish to acknowledge the work of your illustrious predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti. The Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, also deserves acknowledgement for his untiring efforts to ensure that peace and security govern international relations in this turbulent world in which we live, always showing sensitivity and a very special concern for those who suffer the most, have the least, and therefore need the greatest care. Almost a year ago, Central America was tragically struck by one of the most terrible hurricanes of the century. Our country, Honduras, was the most severely damaged, with billions of dollars in losses resulting from the destruction of more than 70 per cent of its infrastructure and economy. More than 15,000 people were killed, injured or went missing and more than 1.5 million suffered losses, either directly or indirectly, a high percentage of whom lost their homes, belongings and businesses in their entirety. Those unfortunate circumstances through which we had to live, the consequences of which we have only just begun to recover from, have been aggravated in recent weeks by the severity of the winter and high levels of precipitation. Once again, the banks of our country’s main rivers have overflowed, as it was not possible to dredge them because of lack of time and resources. This is again jeopardizing the safety of numerous population centres and cities, causing more flooding and mudslides and blocking the country’s main transportation arteries. This has brought further insecurity and anguish to our population, adding new losses and difficulties to the already grave state of affairs we have faced since last October. Hurricane Mitch and other natural phenomena of uncommon violence lay bare the physical vulnerability of our countries and highlight the absolute necessity of early and organized preventive measures. Such preventive measures can be achieved at the national, regional, continental and, indeed, global levels only through combined, joint efforts and resources. No country, much less a country that is poor in material resources, is up to the task of bearing the massive destructive power of these  phenomena alone. This is a huge new challenge for the United Nations, whose diligent attention to this matter we take this opportunity to request, knowing that it stands to save thousands upon thousands of lives, spare us enormous damage, and deflect immense ills. We, the Honduran people, have always valued the world’s solidarity, for which we are most grateful, and have also learned that brotherhood among men and among nations is a value that we must not lose. On the contrary, we must revitalize, strengthen and disseminate it, especially now that globalization and high-speed communications are drawing States and continents closer together, making it possible for one nation instantly to feel the pain that afflicts another as if it affected us all directly. More than neighbours, we must be brethren. Beyond cooperation, we must sow the seeds of brotherhood. Solidarity is a fine thing, but brotherhood is stronger and more human, because it breathes from the depth of our hearts that divine, universal breath of life with which God endows each and every one of his creatures so that we should be equal and enjoy the planet’s wealth as equals. Since its founding in 1945, the United Nations has played a preeminent role in the life of our planet. The 50 nations that met at San Francisco, California, among which the Honduran people were honoured to count ourselves, and that signed the United Nations Charter, have increased in number over the years. Some have changed, while others have disappeared as multinational or federated structures. Therefore, the challenges that the next century will place before the United Nations are new, even greater challenges, and most likely will be even more difficult and will arise ever more frequently. The growing victories of human rights; the accelerated expansion of democracy as a system of governance and coexistence among peoples; the rights of women and children, and the imperative to protect both against abuse, discrimination and violence: these are matters that challenge the creative imagination of the world’s peoples and Governments. They are paradigms for a new millennium, whose portals we approach with a watchful mind and a hopeful heart. Peace; the environment; population growth; the abandonment of the fields and the forced, chaotic urbanization of our cities — which have thus become ruralized; issues of food; the vast differences between a small cluster of rich nations and an immense universe of nations that are in a permanent process of pauperization; and the eradication of weapons of mass destruction: these are but a few of the topics that transcend the boundaries of the centuries. These issues demand new approaches and solutions formulated in the light of the experiences that this waning century leaves us. Now, when the end of the twentieth century enables us to be exceptionally privileged witnesses to a change of millennium, is a time for reflection, so that we may harvest the century’s finest fruits and bear them across the bridge between the centuries. However, we must not carry to the other frontier of time those things that in this century have produced the great disasters of war and agonizing tensions on the international scene; nor must we hold on to those that have segregated peoples and dismembered entire States or that have spawned the marginalization and exclusion that still torment a large part of humanity. It is of the utmost necessity, then, that fraternity should return to its rightful place in the triangle of liberal principles, the very ideals that gave birth to the rule of law and the concept of constitutionality, to harmony and equality among individuals and among nations, thus shaping democratic States and the paradigm of human freedom as the basis of the existence of humankind, its very raison d’être on this planet. We say that the elder siblings among the community of nations must adopt the concept of fraternity as a principle and a guiding ethic for international coexistence with their brethren, so that together — without exclusion, without the yawning chasms that separate the great from the small, the wealthy from the impoverished — we may all cross to the other side of the millennium with a new outlook of justice, opportunity and hope, for the sake of all that we are as the human race, and for the sake of all the efforts, sacrifices and suffering expended in our attempts to dodge the blows of economic disparity and unjust treatment in finance and markets. Yet we have remained steadfast, and continue to do so through titanic efforts and countless sacrifices, to avoid being left behind by development, cultural trends and the scientific and technological benefits of transportation and communications. We have struggled for all of this while giving our heroes and martyrs to the cause of freedom; we stretch as far as we can to develop democratic rule in our States. We struggle each and every day to make democratic rule able to govern, credible, hope-inspiring and trustworthy in the eyes and hearts of the many who do not always have the patience to wait until the benefits 2 of the system materialize, who despair and grow weary of dreaming dreams that are difficult to attain. For democracy to survive the times and to justify the high price that we have paid for it, it must respond to the concerns and aspirations of peoples. Protecting against regression in what so many have paid dearly to achieve; preserving the advances we have made; and finding a way to ensure that there will respond in a positive way for the benefit of peoples: these are the greatest challenges that we carry with us as we meet the coming millennium. Central Americans have learned, through bitter experience and a painful toll of blood and sacrifice, that fraternity is a higher value than mere neighbourliness, that cooperation and understanding yield better fruit for us than past rivalries and local nationalisms and that there is no difference, however serious it may appear, that we cannot resolve in a peaceful, harmonious and civilized manner. A few days ago the presidents of El Salvador and Honduras set a beautiful example for the continent and the world when they ratified the Convention on Nationality and Acquired Rights which covers the inhabitants of the areas delimited by the Judgment of 11 September 1992 of the International Court of Justice in the land, island and maritime frontier dispute between El Salvador and Honduras. With this action, we have resolved, definitively and in perpetuity, the frontier dispute which for many years cast a pall over our fraternal relations. The Central American bloc is today working towards access to the United States market under conditions as advantageous as those already enjoyed by other partners to our north; also, as a region we are seeking to open up the field for ourselves in trade throughout the continent through agreements with other existing blocs and with individual nations, including Mexico and countries of South America. Central America is preparing to cross the bridge between the millennia with all its republics more integrated with each other than ever before, identifying with each other in the common ideal of keeping ourselves united so that we are stronger, of playing a stellar role in the American continent, of turning the isthmus into a point of strategic convergence for world trade, and of writing ourselves into a success story that will serve as an example and touchstone to the world community. The globalization process, which has accelerated over the last decade, will continue to expand, creating challenges and chances, problems and opportunities. The dizzying flows of capital which in a single day can wreak catastrophic collapse on the economies of entire countries and regions must surely merit special attention from this Organization. Our peoples fail to understand why they should be affected by breakdowns in the financial system arising out of risk-taking and speculative flows in regions of the world that are remote, alien and even unknown to them. We are affected by them although we play no part in them and are not to blame for them, yet they raise the prices of our staples, rob us of development opportunities, impoverish us even further and make life harder for us. Globalization ought to be an experience that generates broader possibilities and greater opportunities for all countries and for all people, not greater imbalances and inequalities. In stark contrast to the elimination of customs and border posts and to equal access to markets stands the need to reinforce the identity of ethnic groups, nations, countries and regions. Cultural diversity is a source of legitimate pride, and of wealth, creativity and global complementarity. Automation of mass production cannot and should not make human behaviour, the most precious resource on our planet, automatic. Homogenizing the world’s cultural diversity, by whatever means, would be as serious and unthinkable as eliminating the planet’s biodiversity. The world’s age-old desire for a new world order based on peace, cooperation and fraternity between all countries rather than on a balance of arms between powerful and hegemonic States has already come to pass. Although there are still some local problems, and although some old nationalisms are once again raising the flag, the world is generally a much more peaceful and stable place than it was 100 years ago. Although small groups of terrorists are still rattling various countries in the old world and the new, the truth is that, broadly speaking, we live in a world which is more peaceful — thank God — than the one our forebears knew. That is why we must indeed acknowledge that, despite all its imperfections, the world has brought in a new world order at the end of this century and the dawn of the new, an order led by the United Nations. In this new world order which we are seeing at the end of the second millennium, there is no more room for the struggle left us by the Cold War, much less for Europe’s various hegemonies of the past three centuries. Nor is there any possibility that one State alone can dominate the rest, as neither the human capacity nor the material resources exist to do so. Rather than the balance 3 of compulsion upon which the politics of coexistence between the world’s strongest States was based, what predominates now is multiple independence, complementarity between States and international cooperation and, of course, teamwork as much in the quest for peace as in coping with civilian crises and natural disasters. Even a superficial look at events north and south, east and west gives us an inkling that peace, international trade and the fact that States now have no choice but to cooperate with each other have levelled the playing field in international relations: on the world stage, it is now not so much a State’s economic clout or military capability that determine whether its voice is heard in the debate but rather its moral force, and especially its democratic values and its ideals in terms of protecting human rights. In our specific context here, there are no more big States and small States, just members of the world community whether committed or not to the common task of making Planet Earth a real and effective place for human happiness for everyone without exception. With this in mind Honduras, together with the other representatives of this great community, the United Nations, celebrates the new world order in which all of us are needed and are even indispensable to maintaining and developing it. A crisis between one State and another, or any internal difficulties arising out of conflicts rooted in inequity or because of nationalist, racial or religious demands, are no longer matters to be shrugged off. On the contrary, today, with the globalized view of the Earth, each State assumes responsibility for its own protection, not merely for its own sake, but because in that way it guarantees the life and happiness of humankind for centuries to come. Difficulties such as those in East Timor, the crisis in Kosovo, the increasing nuclearization of the Indian subcontinent or the rise in terrorism in Colombia and Russia are issues that concern us all. Although not all countries participate in each peacekeeping and humanitarian mission, there is a disposition and openness in each and every one of their inhabitants to respond to the calls for international solidarity, whose strongest voice is that of the United Nations, and especially that of its Secretary-General. In the Sahara, for several years now Honduran soldiers have participated in peacekeeping missions under United Nations command. We are sure that, like us, no other country skimps when it comes to offering cooperation and making sacrifices. Both the intervention of the Security Council in the Kosovo conflict just recently and the organization of an international peacekeeping force for East Timor illustrate the efficacy of this system, which makes all of us brethren, neighbours, friends and partners. It is undeniable that, even as the world has changed and with obvious respect among all States, the United Nations still operates using the mechanisms that were established at its founding in 1945. The limited number of Member States on the Security Council leaves out other States that, because of their contribution to the development of the world, should participate in the high- level decisions of that important organism of our Organization. Likewise, we believe it is time to provide alternatives so that the veto power enjoyed by certain States is limited to certain matters and certain circumstances, and so that the mere protection of private interests does not have excessive influence or provide justification for aggressions directed at the rest of the world community. To end the practice whereby the veto serves as the Organization's last word should be a goal to which all of the States represented here dedicate ample time and consideration. The incorporation of three new Members into this Organization fills us with joy and hope, while inspiring confidence that the Organization will treat the Republic of China in the same manner — that, as Taiwan expects, the new world order will be reflected in greater respect for the rights and values of Taiwan's inhabitants, including renewed respect for its aspirations to participate fully in the greatest human organization on Earth. I do not wish to miss this opportunity to express the solidarity of the people of Honduras and of all Central America with the people of Taiwan as they suffer the terrible misfortune that is afflicting that sister region of the world. To summarize, with regard to the new world order, which we hope will prevail in this global forum, Honduras supports broader representation of the peoples and the nations of the world, and a more just and balanced representation in the discussions and decisions of the United Nations. Almost a year ago, my country was lashed by the most fearsome and destructive hurricane in history. Along with causing suffering among a noble and stoical people, the tragedy made evident the sensitivity and diligence of international cooperation and fraternity. Marked by 4 authentic sincerity and dedication to the highest values of brotherhood, in which we profoundly believe, messages of concern poured in from all over the world, along with assistance, which continues to flow, enabling the people and Government to reconstruct what the hurricane wrecked. Thanks to that fraternity, we have moved forward in the process of rehabilitation and reconstruction and created a foundation for the transformation of Honduras — and the same applies to Central America. I hereby declare that we, the people of Honduras — with the tears from this recent and painful event still fresh, and while facing a new round of anguish — are back on our feet, brimming with the vibrant spirit of utmost hope, ready to become a success story in this world, to convert tragedy into opportunity. Regarding the cooperation that most of the countries present here have offered and continue to offer us, we take this occasion, on behalf of the Honduran people and the Government over which I preside by the sovereign will of its citizens, to extend our most heartfelt gratitude to all, and likewise to confirm before the Assembly Honduras's desire to reciprocate — in a way that is commensurate with the greatness of its heart and the legitimacy of its democratic institutions — for all that the world has with such deep affection provided us in our time of trouble. All I would add is our most respectful request that cooperating institutions and nations expedite the resources and projects that they have committed to Honduras's reconstruction, which we urgently require now more than ever. On this occasion our country, never forgetting that it is a founding Member of the United Nations, calls for a reform of our Organization so that a new order, based on worldwide cooperation and fraternity, can guarantee for all of us that the Earth was created not for the strongest and the most powerful, but for all human beings. May God bless all nations. May God illuminate us all. Mr. President, it gives me great pleasure to see you presiding over this new session of the General Assembly after your long struggle to gain freedom, along with Sam Nujoma, Nelson Mandela and others who fought to bring an end to the era of colonialism, apartheid and foreign occupation. Your presence here today leading this session of the General Assembly attests to the victory achieved by the people of Namibia in the battle for freedom and independence. It strengthens the hope of the Palestinian people that the dawn of their freedom and the independence of their homeland, Palestine, is near. Furthermore, the victory of your friendly country, Namibia, affirms the constructive role played by the United Nations in the eradication of the colonialism that has burdened oppressed peoples and in enabling them to gain their national independence. I call upon the United Nations to continue to undertake this historic role to eliminate all forms of occupation and colonialism and to strengthen the foundations of peace throughout the world. As I congratulate and welcome you, Sir, I would be remiss if I did not extend our gratitude to your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti. It also gives me great pleasure to express our deep appreciation to Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General, for his distinguished role in leading this international Organization and promoting for world peace. I also want to congratulate the three new members of the United Nations: the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. Their membership is an important step towards the realization of the universality of the Organization. I address the Assembly today — the representatives of the international community — for the second consecutive year, seeking the continuation of support for the realization of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people, particularly at this crucial and sensitive stage that lies between us and the declaration of our independent Palestinian State and sovereignty over our liberated land. This requires the strengthening of international efforts in order to really achieve a just solution to the question of Palestine, the crux of the Middle East conflict. The coming millennium summit, with all the renewed hope and promising beginning it represents for all people, must be a decisive deadline for the achievement of peace in the Middle East. We should work collectively and vigorously to achieve this. I look forward to the participation of Palestine, as a Member State of the United Nations, in the deliberations of the coming millennium summit, and I hope for and trust in the Assembly's support for this Palestinian determination to achieve independence so that Palestine can assume the position it deserves within the family of nations. As the Assembly is aware, we concluded the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum with Mr. Barak, the new Prime Minister of Israel, on 4 September, under the auspices of President Hosni Mubarak, and in the presence of King Abdullah II, Secretary of State Albright, Mr. Moratinos, representing the European Union, and Mr. Larsen, representing Mr. Kofi Annan. The Memorandum is aimed at the implementation of all the obligations of the interim period under the Oslo agreement, the Wye River Memorandum and the Hebron Protocol, and at the resumption of the final status negotiations. This was done with the hope of bringing to an end the policy of protraction and freezing that was pursued by the former Israeli Government, which completely paralysed the peace process and almost dashed the ambitious hopes created by this process for all the countries and peoples of the Middle East. The Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum serves as a source of new hope for putting the peace process back on the right track, as it reaffirms the implementation of existing agreements and of all the obligations within a specific time-frame. In this connection, I extend my gratitude and thanks to all those who contributed to the conclusion of the Memorandum, particularly our host in Sharm el-Sheikh, President Hosni Mubarak, as well as King Abdullah II and Secretary of State Albright, who undertook tangible and concrete efforts as a representative of President Clinton, and the European leaders, their representatives and their envoys to the peace process. The continuous involvement of these friends in this process was essential and necessary for pushing the process forward. International sponsorship of the Middle East peace process is the guarantee for its definitive and final success. 24 The absence of such an international role would send the fragile situation in the region back to square one. I therefore call upon the international community to accelerate and strengthen its efforts and participation to push the peace process forward and revitalize it on all tracks. A just and comprehensive peace in the Middle East can last only if it is protected by international legitimacy and if efforts are undertaken to implement all of the resolutions pertaining to the Middle East conflict on the Palestinian, Syrian and Lebanese tracks. We should work hard so that the signing of this Memorandum will succeed in ending the stagnation of the peace process and in opening the door that the former Israeli Government closed in the face of all serious efforts aimed at achieving real peace. As we reaffirm once more our commitment to the peace process and the implementation of the signed agreements, we hope that this time the Israeli side will implement these agreements scrupulously and honestly, including the phases of redeployment agreed upon in the Wye River and Oslo agreements, the release of prisoners and the other obligations of the transitional period, such as safe passage between the West Bank and the Gaza Strip and the construction of the Gaza seaport. The Israeli Government is called upon to immediately and decisively cease all measures that violate international resolutions, laws and covenants and thus destroy the chances of peace. At the forefront of these are the settlement activities and the confiscation of land, especially in AI-Quds Al-Sharif, and its vicinity, and the siege of the city of Bethlehem and the rest of the Palestinian territories. The continuation of these settlement policies and practices will quash the hopes and expectations generated by the signing of the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum and destroy prospects for the final settlement negotiations, which began on 13 September. The cessation of all such measures is needed in order that we can, together with my new partner, Mr. Barak, continue the march of the peace of the brave that we began with two other partners — the late Yitzhak Rabin, who gave his life for this peace, and Shimon Peres — for a new Middle East. Hence, we look forward to seeing new, real and tangible changes in the positions and actions of the Israeli side that will open the door, in word and in deed, for the achievement of a just and comprehensive peace — a peace of the brave that will lead to the realization of the right of the Palestinian people to self-determination and to the establishment of their independent State, with Al-Quds Al- Sharif (Jerusalem) as its capital, and the realization of the right of the Palestine refugees to return to their homeland in accordance with resolution 194 (III) which affirms the right of the refugees to return to their homes and the right to compensation for those who do not wish to return. The realization of the right of the Palestinian people to establish their independent State with Al-Quds Al- Sharif as its capital will provide the definitive guarantee for the establishment of a permanent peace in the Middle East. It will also be a validation of the Charter of the United Nations and its numerous resolutions over 50 years, beginning with resolution 181 (II) which called for the establishment of two States in Palestine, one Jewish, which is Israel, and one Arab, which is Palestine. The rights of peoples do not diminish because of a statute of limitations or under oppression, and our people have proved through the years that they deserve life, freedom and their own independent State. The time has come for the international community, represented by the General Assembly, to reaffirm this right and to work for its realization. The goal of the current peace process is the implementation of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978) and the application of the principle of land for peace. The latter means total Israeli withdrawal from all Palestinian and other Arab territories occupied since 1967, including Al-Quds Al- Sharif — the Holy City of Jerusalem, which is the first of the two Qiblahs and the third Holy Sanctuary of Islam, the place from which the Prophet Muhammad ascended to heaven, and the cradle of the birth of Jesus Christ. The catastrophe that befell our people 51 years ago, uprooting them from their homeland and dispersing them into exile — thereby stripping them of their dreams and rights as human beings in an attempt to negate their existence — is one of the greatest human tragedies witnessed by the twentieth century. The question of the refugees of Palestine is the oldest and greatest refugee question in our contemporary world. We must recognize the legitimate right of those refugees to return to their homeland, in accordance with United Nations resolutions. Four million Palestinians live in exile and in refugee camps awaiting the time of their return to their homeland, from which they were forcibly expelled. There is no way to achieve peace, stability and security in the Middle East without a solution to the question of the refugees of Palestine and the implementation of resolution 194 (III), which declares their right to return to their homeland. 25 Two essential things must occur for peace to be complete. First, it is necessary to reach a final settlement on all tracks — the Palestinian, Syrian and Lebanese — on the basis of the complete and precise implementation of international legitimacy, especially Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973), and 425 (1978). The second is the provision of economic support and assistance by the international community sufficient for the achievement of a better economic situation and for achieving prosperity in the region. What is required foremost in this regard is raising the Palestinian economy up from the miserable situation in which it finds itself as a result of the long years of occupation, so that building cooperative economic relations in the region will become possible. Here I wish to thank the donor countries that have provided and continue to provide important assistance to the Palestinian people and to the Palestinian Authority. This assistance is necessary to enable us to overcome the immense difficulties that we have been confronting since the establishment of the Palestinian Authority, as a result of the closures and sieges imposed by the previous Israeli Government on the Palestinian territory for long periods, which worsened further the total destruction of the Palestinian economy. The shadows of poverty and unemployment still threaten our economic abilities and plans to reconstruct, build and develop. The achievement of all of this necessitates the continuation of the constructive efforts of the United Nations, which has permanent responsibility towards the question of Palestine until that issue is resolved in all its aspects. We will also remain in need of our Arab brothers, the Islamic countries and our friends in the Non-Aligned Movement. We will remain in need of the two co-sponsors of the peace process, the United States and the Russian Federation, and also of the European Union, China, Japan, Norway and our other friends around the world. We must heighten all our efforts until the arrival of the new millennium in many areas and spheres, and not only in the Middle East. In this respect, we have observed some positive developments which are quite reassuring. There is tangible improvement in the area of conflict resolution on the African continent and on the path towards achieving better economic and social development in that great continent. There is the international attention given to Kosovo, as well as other measures carried out in the Balkans. There is also the adoption of the Statute of the International Criminal Court, as well as the additional consideration being given to the four Geneva Conventions on the occasion of their fiftieth anniversary. We refer here, with appreciation, to the convening of the Conference of the High Contracting Parties to the Fourth Geneva Convention last July regarding the Israeli occupation of our land. There are also the follow-ups and reviews of a series of international conferences five years after their convening, in addition to the preparations being made with regard to such important issues as the culture of peace and the dialogue among civilizations. All of these things are important developments, but perhaps not enough for us to be able to begin the new millennium under new circumstances. This is particularly so if we look at some of the events and worrisome developments in different areas. There is the continuation of the state of siege in Iraq and the profound suffering of its brotherly people. There is also the continuation of internal conflicts in many countries, such as Afghanistan and others. Recently there have also been worrisome developments in East Timor. But I would like, in particular, to refer to the rise of extreme poverty and to the widening gap between the haves and the have-nots on the individual, national and regional levels. Perhaps it is we, the poor people of the South, who are most concerned about how to bridge the gap between us and the North, particularly in this era of globalization of the world economy, whose challenges and consequences we must all face. Here we must exert serious efforts and seek creative means beyond hasty and temporary measures. While it is time for the South to be more prepared to realize such an achievement, the North should also be more prepared for partnership and more realistic, effective and just sharing. In addition to economic matters, we must also strive to achieve some needed improvements at the political level, particularly with regard to international political relations. It is imperative in this connection that we all give greater significance to the United Nations. This must be done in order for this body to truly and urgently become the effective centre of international and political relations and the source of international legitimacy. It is also necessary to be wholly committed to upholding the principles and provisions of the Charter of the United Nations and of international and humanitarian laws, as well as ensuring that they apply to all. We should apply to others the same moral values as we accept for ourselves. There should be one set of criteria and one standard for all cases and in all places. All of this will lead to a more credible system of international relations, in which the incentive to commit wrongs will be lessened 26 and the collective capability to confront and prevent those wrongs will, in turn, be enhanced. It is with great pride that I would now like to speak of the Bethlehem 2000 celebrations. The Palestinian city of Bethlehem, the birthplace of Jesus Christ, is the place where we are making preparations to celebrate the end of the second millennium and the beginning of the third. It is also there, in Palestine, that the past, the present and the future will meet in a global vision of hope for all peoples. It is a religious and spiritual occasion of high importance, not only for our people and the other peoples of the region, but also for all the faithful around the world and for the entire international community. I appreciate the unanimous adoption last year of the resolution concerning this great and important matter, and invite the Assembly to continue to grant it its attention and consideration this year. Here, I wish to extend once again the Palestinian people’s invitation to the Assembly and to all the leaders of the world to visit us during this important spiritual and religious occasion in Bethlehem, Jerusalem and the other religious and spiritual places, so that we can proudly live together in peace at this special, historic time. I should like to extend my gratitude to the Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People, to the Committee’s Chairman, Ambassador Ibra Ka of Senegal, to the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian People and other Arabs of the Occupied Terrotiries and to all the staff members of this international Organization working in programmes relating to the question of Palestine. They have all provided immeasurable support to the just cause of the Palestinian people and have most certainly contributed to advancing the peace process towards the achievement of a just, permanent and comprehensive peace — a peace of the brave that will secure justice and freedom for the Palestinian people and their sovereignty over their land, along with security, stability and peace for all countries and peoples of this region. Once again I express my congratulations to you, Mr. President, and my gratitude to all the members of the international community, reiterating to you the appeal of Palestine — an appeal of right, justice and peace.  Allow me at the outset to join with others who have spoken before me in congratulating you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. I am certain that your experience and skills, as well as your dedication to freedom and justice, make you qualified to lead the United Nations as it searches for peace in Africa and elsewhere in the coming year. I also take this opportunity to pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, for the effective manner in which he guided the work of the previous session. I extend my gratitude to the Secretary-General for his dedicated and exemplary contributions to the cause of peace. Permit me also to welcome the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga as new Members of our Organization. It is a matter of deep concern that this year is witnessing the continuation of conflicts and the emergence of new sources of conflict. In particular, it is disturbing to note the growing tendency to resort to the use or threat of force. This has become a grave danger to the independence and unity of States as well as to regional and international peace and security. This year has recorded some of the bloodiest inter-State and intra-State conflicts, in Africa, Asia and Europe. Sub-Saharan African has been the part of the world that has suffered most from those conflicts. Sub-Saharan Africa’s economic performance and political stability have, in fact, taken a turn for the worse in 1999. About one third of the 52 members of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), all of them in sub-Saharan Africa, have been worse off economically in 1999 than they were in the previous year. Almost 20 countries have been afflicted by armed civil conflict or inter-State war. It is not surprising that almost all of the countries that have suffered economic relapse are the ones that are embroiled in conflict. Among those 20, the worst are to be found in the Horn of Africa. More than two thirds of their people are living in abject misery. Most have little or no food. They are ridden with disease. The economies of most of those countries are in shambles. The region is politically unstable and racked by conflict. It is no surprise, therefore, that some donor States and international financial institutions have rightly denounced the state of affairs and have informed a few of those States that they would be better advised to feed their hungry millions and better manage their economies than squander countless millions to finance ill-advised military adventures. In his report on Africa, Secretary-General Kofi Annan made it amply clear that economic stagnation and poverty are a direct function of conflict. However, this is as evident elsewhere as it is in Africa. Thus, the situations in East Timor, Afghanistan, Kosovo or Bosnia and Herzegovina are no different from those in the Horn of Africa, Sierra Leone, the Democratic Republic of the Congo or Angola. In all those cases, conflicts have caused serious setbacks in development plans and negatively impacted on the living conditions of the people. In almost all cases, conflict has been the intrinsic cause of famine and serious violations of human rights and other humanitarian crises. The international community cannot afford complacency in the face of such threats to international peace and security, if it is to be believed that peace is indivisible and that what happens in one region will have an impact on others. Various reasons, including ethnic and religious hatred, economic and political grievances and unemployment, have been advanced as the root causes of conflict. While these are valid factors, it must never be forgotten that territorial expansionism, both within and outside the State, and the determination to achieve it by the use or threat of military force and by political and economic coercion against the territorial integrity and independence of neighbouring countries, has been the major cause of conflict and the disturbance of peace in 29 the Horn of Africa. Eritrea, the victim of Ethiopia’s territorial ambitions and its policy of aggression, is one example of this. It has now been 16 months since the eruption of the conflict between Eritrea and Ethiopia, the root cause of which is Ethiopia’s avowedly ethnic-based policy of territorial aggrandizement and its systematic annexation of large areas of Eritrean territory. From the beginning of the conflict, Eritrea has consistently pursued a policy of peaceful resolution of the border problem even in the face of provocation, creeping annexation of its territory and outright aggression. To that end, it had attempted, before the eruption of the conflict, to engage the Ethiopian Government in peaceful dialogue to amicably resolve all existing problems and controversies related to their common border. Even after the start of the conflict, Eritrea on several occasions requested the Ethiopian side to agree to accept bilateral negotiations. When this was rejected by Ethiopia, Eritrea unilaterally issued a proposal which contained detailed modalities for the peaceful resolution of the conflict. That too was rejected by the Ethiopian regime. After the Organization of African Unity (OAU) was seized of the matter, Eritrea accepted, despite its grave reservations, the Framework Agreement submitted to both parties following the Ouagadougou summit of June 1998, after it had received the clarifications it had sought on several critical issues. Eritrea also readily and unequivocally accepted, at the Algiers OAU summit in July 1999, the modalities for the implementation of the Framework Agreement. The modalities were in fact drawn up to satisfy the unjust, unfair and unwarranted new preconditions made by Ethiopia on the basis of its own unilateral interpretation of the Framework Agreement. Eritrea declared that it was accepting the modalities only in the interests of peace and of the good of both the Ethiopian and the Eritrean peoples. Finally, Eritrea also accepted without any delay the technical arrangements for the implementation of the Framework Agreement and modalities which were submitted to both parties on 23 August 1999. Implementation of the provisions of the Framework Agreement would entail, inter alia, the following: it would require a cessation of hostilities, the redeployment of the troops of both sides from disputed territories and the deployment of peacekeeping forces in those areas. Eritrea is fully committed to this. It would require investigation of the sequence of events to determine the origins of the conflict. Eritrea welcomes this since it would conclusively identify the real aggressor. The Framework Agreement envisages the investigation of human rights abuses. Eritrea awaits the results eagerly. Implementation would determine the exact borders between the two countries. Eritrea is enthusiastic about this. Eritrea is certain that the international community too is just as eager and enthusiastic about finding the final truth on all these and other related matters. On the other hand, the Ethiopian Government was determined to achieve its territorial ambitions by all means, fair or foul. To this end, in 1997 and 1998, members of the armed forces and militia of the Ethiopian Government systematically used brute force to expel Eritreans from Eritrean lands and to incorporate southern and south-eastern Eritrean territories into Ethiopia. That Government then rejected all Eritrean overtures on direct peace talks and continued feverishly to prepare for new aggression even as it paid lip service to the Framework Agreement. On 6 February 1999, it launched an invasion along several sectors of our common boundary, even while peace facilitators from the United Nations and the United States were engaged in shuttle diplomacy to bring the conflict to an end. Sadly, tens of thousands of Ethiopians and many Eritreans perished or were wounded during that aggression. When Eritrea accepted the Framework Agreement, Ethiopia came out with new preconditions based solely on its own interpretation of the Agreement, rather than joining Eritrea in the implementation of the peace plan. Yet Ethiopia was to accept the modalities — which were actually formulated to satisfy its unfair, unjust and unwarranted demands — only after much prevarication and procrastination. Finally, Ethiopia issued a statement on 4 September 1999 which was tantamount to a rejection of the technical arrangements, which are only a procedure for implementing the Framework Agreement and the modalities, on the untenable grounds that it contained elements which were not part of the previous two documents. One week later, on the eve of the Ethiopian new year, in a reiteration of Ethiopia’s previous declaration of war, its President publicly announced that Ethiopia would use force to impose its will over disputed territory. That was a blatant repudiation of the OAU effort, all of whose documents had been endorsed by the United Nations and other concerned organizations and Governments. The OAU has given Ethiopia clear and unambiguous clarifications in response to its queries and concerns. It is also to be recalled that the OAU had decided, and both parties had accepted, that any interpretation of the documents would be made solely by the OAU and its 30 current Chairman. The OAU and the United Nations have also agreed to become guarantors of the scrupulous implementation of all the provisions of the OAU peace package. Ethiopia’s latest threat of war and its consequent repudiation of its commitment to the OAU peace process, which is inflexible about the peaceful resolution of the conflict, are thus in contempt of the OAU, the United Nations and the international community. Ethiopia’s refusal to accept the technical arrangements until its new set of preconditions are met is holding the peace process hostage in spite of the clamour of the international community for the acceptance and quick implementation of the peace plan. However quixotic and unjustifiable it may be, the Ethiopian Government has declared that it will not accept the technical arrangements until it receives from the OAU a firm assurance of Ethiopian sovereignty over the disputed areas. Obviously, this is a direct contradiction of, and a frontal assault on, the Framework Agreement, whose provisions clearly declare that the “redeployment will not prejudge the final status of the area concerned, which will be determined at the end of the delimitation and demarcation of the border and, if need be, through an appropriate mechanism of arbitration”. (S/1998/1223, annex, p. 25) Surely, the proposition that a State must a priori be awarded full sovereignty over contested territory before the determination of ownership must distort the norms of international law and international relations. Ethiopia has also claimed that its decision to use force to control contested areas was taken in self-defence. Such a notion relegates the concept of self-defence to the realm of self- help. It is not difficult to conclude which party to the Eritrean-Ethiopian conflict has undertaken to fulfil in good faith its obligations under the OAU peace package and which party is determined to undermine, by direct or indirect aggression, the Charters of the United Nations and the OAU, thereby endangering peace, security, stability and peaceful development in our region. It is not difficult to determine which of the parties is resolved to bring about territorial changes, in clear violation of the OAU and United Nations Charters, by aggression, coercion, infiltration and subterfuge. A perfunctory analysis of the media — particularly the broadcast media — of both countries will also reveal which of the parties is fanning the flames of ethnic hatred and is actively engaged in propaganda and in preparation for a new war, thereby committing a crime against peace. In short, it is very easy to identify which of the parties is committed to peace and which is committed to war and aggression. Once again, war clouds are looming ominously over our region. It is now self-evident that the Ethiopian Government is still determined to pursue a policy predicated on violent aggression. By its shrill war hysteria, the Government of Ethiopia is making it clear that it is poised to invade our country yet again. It is not our wish to fight. The bitter experience of a long war of independence has taught us to dread war. We seek no territorial expansion, and we have no plan to commit aggression against any other State. We seek to live in peaceful cooperation with all our neighbours. Yet if war is imposed on us we must — and will — fight to safeguard the sovereignty of our country and to preserve our dignity as a people. In this connection, Eritrea solemnly declares in this Assembly that the responsibility for any new military engagement will lie with the Addis Ababa regime. We have exercised prudence and patience in the face of aggression, provocation and crimes committed by the Government of Ethiopia against our nationals in Ethiopia and Eritrea. A State has the duty to protect its nationals from injury caused by the Government of any State. Yet Eritrea has hitherto preferred to react with equanimity to the gross and violent violations of the human rights of Eritreans and Ethiopians of Eritrean origin in the hope of securing a peaceful resolution of the conflict. However, there are limits to the misdoings that any respectable State must tolerate. It would be unacceptable for any Government worthy of the trust of its people not to defend the State and the people it represents against aggression. It would be an unthinkable calamity for a people which had fought for so long, endured unimaginable hardship and won its independence against all odds to lose its rights as a people and a nation to an aggressor. It is incumbent on those who love freedom and justice and respect the equality of peoples, who are committed to peace and cherish the norms and principles of the United Nations, to ensure that law and moral principles prevail against international lawlessness and immorality. Ethiopia’s threatened aggression must be a source of deep concern to the international community and particularly to the OAU and the United Nations which have consistently urged both parties to restrain themselves 31 from the use or threat of force and to solve the conflict by peaceful means. To this end, the international community must insist that both parties recognize and respect each other’s right to live in peace within secure and recognized borders. It is for this reason that Eritrea believes that this Assembly has the duty to uphold the decision of the OAU, which has already been endorsed by the United Nations Security Council, and calls upon the Assembly to denounce Ethiopia’s renewed preparation for war against Eritrea and to demand that it accept and implement the OAU peace package. Surely, if there is any lesson that must have been learned in the last 16 months, it is that nothing can be gained, and everything may be lost, by continued warfare. Therefore, the Government of Eritrea calls upon the United Nations and the international community to: first, condemn Ethiopia’s commitment to the use and threat of force; secondly, establish a short time-frame within which Ethiopia must definitively respond to the peace package; thirdly, take timely and appropriate measures for the immediate and unconditional implementation of the OAU peace plan in its entirety; and, fourthly, immediately deploy an observer mission to identify the aggression in the event of renewed conflict. At the outset, please allow me to express, on behalf of the delegation of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, our pleasure on congratulating you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. We believe that your diplomatic skill and rich experience will greatly contribute to our work at this session. I avail myself of this opportunity to extend my gratitude to Mr. Didier Opertti, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Uruguay, for his tangible contribution to United Nations activities during his tenure of his office as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-third session. I also express appreciation for the efforts of the Secretary-General towards strengthening the functions and the role of the United Nations. The current session, which is being held at the historic turn of the century, has an important mission to give new hope to humankind. The challenges and the difficulties facing international society are growing ever more complex and intricate. The cold war has ended but domination and hegemony continue to exist. High- handedness and arbitrariness continue to pose major threats to international peace and security. Because of the high-handedness and arbitrariness, so prevalent in international relations, the principles of justice and fairness are often disregarded and the principle of sovereign equality — a lifeline to United Nations activities — is shaken to its very foundation. Moreover, we have recently seen grave situations whereby the internal affairs of sovereign States are interfered in by force. Today international society must choose one of the two following options: whether the twenty-first century will be a century of independence, equality and peace, or whether it will be a century of high-handedness and arbitrariness. If we choose the latter, all countries with weak national defence capabilities will be vulnerable to bombing, as was the case in Yugoslavia. As we are all well aware, the Korean peninsula stands at the centre of international peace and security. Therefore, as a party directly concerned, I wish to take this opportunity to present the details of views and positions regarding the present situation there. This will, 6 we believe, be a most effective contribution to the work of the current session. At present, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea is being blatantly portrayed as a dangerous area of nuclear weapons proliferation and a source of missile threats. For example, an empty tunnel is suspected of being an underground nuclear facility and a satellite is labelled a ballistic missile. These are now being used as pretexts for reviving a “star wars” plan, a phantom of the cold war, in a variant named “the missile defence system”. Meanwhile, the attempts of a defeated State to rearm and to re-emerge as a military power are being accelerated at the fastest possible speed and even a debate calling for nuclear armaments has come to the fore. Pursuant to operation plan 502798, aimed at preemptive attacks against the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, large-scale strike forces have been surreptitiously amassed in and around South Korea. They are entering into actual combat readiness through various joint military exercises. It is becoming almost a reality, not simply an assumption, that the Korean peninsula will become a second Balkans. In the Balkan region, a humanitarian crisis served as a pretext for war, whereas on the Korean peninsula, the so-called missile issue is likely to be used instead. Our satellite launch is an exercise of equal rights in the use of outer space that is recognized by the United Nations. Strengthening our national defence capabilities is an exercise of our sovereign right of legitimate defence: it does not constitute a violation of any obligations the Democratic People's Republic of Korea has under existing international treaties. Nevertheless, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea has become a target of United States high-handedness and arbitrariness. The reason is very clear: placing the entire Korean peninsula under its control is a top priority of the Asia strategy of the United States. As Yugoslavia becomes an impediment to United States domination over the Balkan area, so the adherence of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to socialism is considered an obstacle to its Asia strategy. Much the same can be said about why Japan is so hysterically resorting to a campaign against the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Japan has not liquidated its past crimes against the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, alone amongst countries. Japan is miscalculating that, if the Democratic People's Republic of Korea were stifled, the issue of liquidating its past crimes would fade away by itself. Not only that, Japan is fabricating threats, one after the other, as an excuse to become a military Power. Our people love peace and aspire to it even more than others: they lived for the first half of this century under the colonial rule of Japan and they have been living for the second in a state of belligerence with the United States. Nevertheless, we do not beg for peace: we want a peace in which we can enjoy an independent life, not the peace of slaves denied all freedom. Sovereignty is the lifeline of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and socialism is the life of our people. It is the unshakeable will of our people, and State policy of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, to defend, consolidate and develop to the utmost our own style of socialism, chosen by the people themselves. This is an exercise of the right to self-determination and freedom of choice recognized by the United Nations. The present-day confrontation on the Korean peninsula is in essence a confrontation between those who are masters of their own country trying to defend all that is theirs and the foreign forces attempting to harm them. This is the main factor underlying the continuing instability on the Korean peninsula. Herein also lies the answer to the question of who is posing a threat to whom. It is not easy for our people, whose territory and population are small and who still lack almost everything, to defend their sovereignty single- handedly in the face of the collective, hostile power politics of the United States and its forces of subordination. We have no alternative but to strengthen our national defence capability ourselves, although this means we must tighten our belts. Because of our lack of capacity, Comrade Kim Jong Il, the great leader of our people, is employing an “army first” policy. This policy is our own unique way of uniting the whole people with the army into a bulwark, thus enabling us both to defend the country and develop its economy. Despite the persistent political, military and economic moves of hostile forces to suffocate us, up until now we have succeeded in defending our sovereignty and preventing another war on the Korean peninsula. This proves the strength of the “army first” policy, for defending socialism and ensuring peace with weapons. The way to ensure lasting peace and security on the Korean peninsula is to end the hostile relations between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the United States and reunify Korea. The Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the United States are still in a 7 state of temporary armistice. Easing tension on the Korean peninsula and eliminating the danger of war will be possible when the United States discards, among other things, its hostile policy against the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and concludes a peace agreement with it. There is no convincing reason why the United States must continue to antagonize the Democratic People's Republic of Korea alone in north-east Asia, almost 10 years after the end of the cold war. We do not want war, but we do strive to achieve the peaceful reunification of our country. We have already made it clear that we would not regard the United States as a permanent enemy. We have also fully shown our good faith through our sincere implementation over the last five years of the Agreed Framework between the United States and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. We have also made it clear that, while we will make continued efforts to catch up with neighbouring countries in the field of peaceful space activities, we are ready for discussions on the missile issue at any time, if hostile nations are sincere in their intentions to dispel our concern. Now it is the turn of the United States to prove its good faith to us with deeds, if it does not harbour ill intent towards the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. It is fortunate that the United States has recently decided on a partial lifting of economic sanctions against the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, but we look forward to a comprehensive and genuine lifting of them all. If the United States stops pursuing its hostile policy towards the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and moves towards improved relations, we also will respond with good faith. For the present, we are to have high-level talks towards a settlement of outstanding issues between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the United States. These are to be held in response to the request from the United States, and missile launches will be suspended while the talks are under way. The United States should not attempt to test the strength of our military capability or frighten and subdue our people with military threats and provocations. Reckless acts such as these will surely result in a strong self-defence response with possibly catastrophic consequences. The United Nations should fulfil its responsibility for ensuring peace on the Korean peninsula by implementing, as early as possible, General Assembly resolution 3390 (XXX) B, calling for dissolution of the United Nations Command. The early achievement of national reunification is the long-cherished desire of our nation. At the same time, it is a prerequisite for ensuring durable peace and security on the Korean peninsula. As long as Korea remains divided, the situation on the Korean peninsula and its surrounding areas will never be stable. This is detrimental to peace in Asia and also in the rest of the world. We have already established national reunification principles. The three principles of independence, peaceful reunification and great national unity, which the North and South of Korea confirmed and made public at home and abroad, in the 4 July joint statement, constitute the grand reunification programme. They form the cornerstone of national reunification, which the United Nations officially welcomed in the resolution adopted at the twentieth session of the General Assembly. The most above board and reasonable way to achieve reunification is the confederal formula, by which the North and South of Korea would be able to realize national reunification fairly and smoothly on the basis of preserving each other's ideas and systems as they are. Any attempts by one side to change the other, to make claims about the “sunshine policy” and engagement, while ignoring the reality that two different ideas and systems are existing in the North and South, will only mean confrontations and conflict. In order to eliminate confrontations between the North and the South, and to promote national reconciliation and unity, the South Korean authorities should abolish, inter alia, the national security law, which has identified fellow countrymen as the enemy. The fact that delegates of patriotic organizations for reunification in South Korea who visited Pyongyang last August were imprisoned, because of their participation in the grand reunification festival, shows a clear picture of anti- reunification acts and human rights violations by South Korean authorities wielding the national security law. The South Korean authorities are now talking about reconciliation and cooperation with the North. But behind the scenes, they are criminalizing contacts and exchanges among the people and other personages of the North and South of Korea and are suppressing patriotic reunification forces by invoking the national security law. Therefore, as long as the national security law and anti-national and anti-reunification law remains in place, it is impossible to achieve national reconciliation and unity and realize contacts and exchanges between the North and South of Korea. Only when the South Korean 8 authorities take an attitude of national independence and patriotism, instead of depending upon foreign forces and collaborating with them, will North-South relations become characterized by trust and reconciliation and will a decisive breakthrough be opened for reunification. On 18 April of last year, the respected General Kim Jong Il put forward the five point policy of great national unity to hasten the independent and peaceful reunification of the country. That policy is, first, to base oneself on the principle of national reunification; secondly, to unite the whole nation under the banners of patriotism and national reunification; thirdly, to improve North-South relations; fourthly, to struggle against alien domination and anti- reunification forces; and fifthly, to develop exchanges, contacts and dialogues and to strengthen solidarity and coalition throughout the entire nation. Great unity of the whole nation would be national reunification. Even though there are still numerous difficulties and obstacles in the way of national reunification, we are optimistic about its prospects. Our nation is one, and so is our motherland. Under the banner of national reunification, our nation will achieve great national unity without fail. The twenty-first century should be a century of independence, in which “dominationism” and high- handedness are eliminated and the sovereignty of all States is equally respected. In order to bring about a new century of independence and of durable peace, a just international order that never tolerates high-handedness and arbitrariness should be established. To this end, the principle of respect for sovereignty should be strictly adhered to as the supreme principle in international relations. The assertion that disarmament, human rights and humanitarian issues should be placed above sovereignty should be firmly denounced as a dangerous attempt to justify both high-handedness and arbitrariness. Disputes cannot be properly settled by high- handed and arbitrary measures, such as sanctions and the use of force. They should be resolved through dialogue and negotiation on all accounts. Countries of Africa and the Middle East that are insisting they should be responsible for resolving their issues through dialogue and negotiations are enjoying the support of the international community. What is important in establishing a just international order is to ensure fairness in the formulation and application of international treaties relating to disarmament, human rights and so forth. In particular, the double standard of abusing international law as a pretext for interference in the internal affairs of sovereign States and the use of force against sovereign States should be strictly rejected. In order for the United Nations to fulfil its responsibilities and its role in accordance with the Charter, democracy should be practised in United Nations activities. Without enhancing the authority of the General Assembly, and without an early restructuring of the Security Council, the United Nations will be unable to meet the demands of a rapidly changing situation and to cope with new challenges. The authority of the General Assembly, where all Member States are represented and interact democratically on an equal footing, should be enhanced. If the General Assembly is empowered to deliberate on crucial issues, such as ensuring international peace and security, and finally examines important Security Council resolutions concerning sanctions and the use of force, this will be conducive to ensuring fairness in United Nations activities and preventing arbitrariness by individual countries. The Security Council should be reformed in such a way as to have all regions equally represented in its composition and to ensure full transparency in all of its activities. In this regard, we oppose under any circumstances the permanent membership of a defeated nation that has not liquidated its past crimes. We are of the view that the proposal put forward by member countries of the Non- Aligned Movement to first increase non-permanent seats, which is relatively easy to agree upon at this stage, deserves sincere consideration. Since the Security Council is taking its actions on behalf of the general United Nations membership, its working methods and, particularly, decision-making processes should be made more transparent for all of the Member States. The Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea will continue to maintain independence, peace and friendship as the fundamental ideals of its foreign policy. We are convinced that attaching importance to independence, peace and friendship in international relations conforms with the purposes and principles of the United Nations and makes a contribution to peace and security on the Korean peninsula, in Asia and in the rest of the world. 9 In conclusion, I assure the Assembly that the delegation of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea will make sincere efforts for the success of the current session and will extend its active cooperation to the work of the presidency.  Mr. President, I congratulate you, the Foreign Minister of Namibia, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. Your experience as the Namibian people's chief representative in New York during your country's struggle for independence and your role in guiding Namibia into the family of nations will serve you well in directing the important work of this session. Our thanks are also due to Foreign Minister Opertti of Uruguay for his dedicated efforts in leading the Assembly over the past 12 months. I, too, would like to warmly welcome our three new Members to the United Nations, the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. In January of this year, my Government had the privilege of hosting a visit by Secretary-General Annan. As the first United Nations Secretary-General to emerge from within the international civil service, his personal commitment to the United Nations and its founding principles is evidenced in his efforts to steer the Organization into the new millennium. My colleague Foreign Minister Halonen of Finland set out the views of the European Union on the main challenges facing the international community today, and, of course, Ireland fully associates itself with our respected Finnish Presidency's remarks. The responsibility of the United Nations to maintain international peace and security has been severely tested this year. In Africa, in the Balkans and, most recently, in East Timor, we have seen bloody and vicious outbreaks of violence which could have been avoided. At the same time, the incidence and scale of natural disasters has increased, adding to the pressures facing the already overstretched relief agencies. We need to take up the challenge which the Secretary-General set out in his thought-provoking address earlier this week — to think anew about how the United Nations and the Member States respond to the political, human rights and humanitarian crises affecting so much of the world. We are all haunted by the collective failure to prevent humanitarian disasters — including genocide — as well as the outbreak of conflict in many regions. The case for better prevention strategies is overwhelming. Even the costliest policy of prevention is far cheaper, in lives and resources, than the least expensive use of armed force. It is simply unacceptable that the United Nations should be starved of the resources that are vital to this conflict prevention. Where conflict prevention fails, more fundamental questions relating to capabilities for crisis management arise. How is it possible, for example, that the international community finds itself repeatedly incapable of taking effective action? How has it come to pass that questions are being raised about the adequacy of the Charter itself? Or that the constraints impairing the effectiveness of the Organization have led to searching elsewhere for effective response? It is indeed a paradox that, in a world of unprecedented interdependence and technological capabilities, we should be confronted by such a dilemma. The Charter, I think, has been fairly described as a “living document”. I believe that this provides the key to resolving our dilemma. We have not used sufficiently the possibilities that already exist under the Charter, not only in the area of peace and security, but also in the social and economic fields. I would suggest that we should scrutinize its provisions and use them imaginatively. That could make possible a reinvigoration of the United 25 Nations, injecting a new sense of purpose and a new dynamic. I believe we should similarly look to see how we can support the Secretary-General in his immense labours. His report on the work of the Organization has diagnosed accurately the challenges that exist and has genuinely pointed out what needs to be done. He has powers under the Charter, and he should be encouraged to use them to the full. Greater empowerment of the Secretary-General is one practical step that we, the Member States, should take. We should seize the opportunity provided by the Millennium Assembly next year to reaffirm our commitment to the goals and principles set out in the Charter, in a pragmatic, action-oriented and forward-looking manner. We can learn, as has been said by previous speakers, from the crisis in East Timor. As the Personal Representative of the European Union Presidency, I witnessed at first hand the consultation process on 30 August. I wish particularly to pay tribute to the outstanding work of the United Nations Mission in East Timor (UNAMET). It has received criticism, and I reject that criticism. I saw the work at first hand. They were an unarmed force — a group of very brave men and women. Men and women of my own country were among that very brave group of people, and I salute them. Ireland, together with our European Union partners, is fully committed to seeing that the people of East Timor enjoy the independence which they have freely chosen. The poll itself took place peacefully in a fair and free manner — we witnessed it first hand — and reflected, as I understand it, the views of the people. It was, however, followed by systematic and ruthless attacks on the population. We have condemned these atrocities in the strongest terms. The perpetrators of crimes against humanity must be brought to justice. The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mrs. Mary Robinson, has called for an international commission of inquiry, and, of course, we all fully support this, as I understand it. Had those seeking to frustrate and overturn the process initiated by President Habibie last January succeeded, they would have denied the democratic rights of the people of East Timor, posing a very serious challenge to the credibility and authority of the United Nations. I welcome the decisive action taken by the Security Council which led to the adoption of its resolution 1264 (1999), although I regret that this action could not have been taken more speedily. I pay sincere tribute to all involved, and in particular to the members of the Security Council mission who went to Jakarta and Dili in very very difficult circumstances. I pay sincere tribute to all involved. All of the provisions of Security Council resolution 1264 (1999) must now be fully implemented in all respects, as it says, and as is required by it. We fully support the deployment of the international force for East Timor under the leadership of Australia. Ireland is among the contributors to this force. We are facing a humanitarian disaster in both East and West Timor. All East Timorese refugees, wherever they are, must be allowed to return to their homes. The response that is now being made will go some way to restoring the credibility and authority of this Organization at a time when the restoration of that credibility and authority is so urgently required. In Ireland we will be continuing to support, in every way we can, the work of the United Nations and, of course, the international humanitarian agencies in East Timor. The dilemma which I earlier described is also illustrated clearly by the response to crises in many parts of Africa, as has been outlined by so many other speakers, and by the previous speaker in particular, my colleague Foreign Minister Godana of Kenya. This response has in the past been totally inadequate, leading in turn to further conflict, human suffering and neglect on an even greater scale. I welcome the steps recently taken towards national reconciliation in a number of the African countries, including, as was mentioned by the previous speaker, Sierra Leone and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The patient diplomacy and determination of individual African leaders has laid the groundwork for the resolution of a number of recent conflicts. We received a timely reminder of these efforts a few days ago from President Chiluba of Zambia in his excellent address to the Security Council. But these efforts deserve and require the support and commitment of the international community. The Secretary-General's report on conflict prevention in Africa has set out clear goals and proposals on the promotion of durable peace and sustainable development in Africa, and we must all ensure that real progress is achieved on these issues. Countries emerging from conflict situations, in particular, face the need to rebuild lives and livelihoods. 26 Many of these are among the poorest Member States. In that context, I wish to highlight the extent of the debt burden on developing countries, particularly on the heavily indebted poor countries — the so-called HIPC countries. Servicing this debt deprives many of these nations of scarce resources, resources which are required to meet the most basic human needs, and some of the debt repayments based on the moneys given to some of these countries are nothing short of disgraceful. The launch of the joint World Bank/International Monetary Fund Heavily Indebted Poor Country Initiative two years ago gave hope that substantive action would at last be taken to relieve the debt crisis, particularly the large and growing burden of multilateral debt. Some progress has been made, but, unfortunately again, in the nature of those institutions — and I do not say it by way of great criticism — there is a slowness in their movement. That is why the Initiative has benefited so few of the countries to which it is directed. We need to extend it to more countries, with a greater degree of flexibility, and maybe a little bit of imagination. Ireland wishes to see the strongest possible link between debt relief and poverty alleviation. It is the poorest and most marginalized who have borne much of the burden. I saw this in recent visits to a number of these countries in Africa. We recognize the strength of international concern about the debt of poor countries, including the urgent demands for debt forgiveness. The Irish Government decided last year to direct resources to both bilateral and multilateral debt relief, and also to make it integral to Ireland's overall development cooperation strategy. The goal of poverty reduction, the primary focus of this strategy, cannot be met without concerted international action to stem the haemorrhage of resources caused by this burden. Ireland regrets the decline in flows of official development assistance to what can only be described as historic lows. This situation must be reversed. Developing countries, especially the poorest among them, need international solidarity now more than ever. The forthcoming special session on small island developing States is an important opportunity to focus international attention on countries with which Ireland has a natural affinity. Remote from major markets and ecologically fragile, they face the twin challenges of globalization and climate change. Ireland recognizes their unique situation and supports further work on an index which would reflect their vulnerability. The special session should give a renewed impetus to the Barbados Programme of Action — a Programme that I salute. The small island States, particularly the poorest, must not be further marginalized. For our part, we have placed a new emphasis on small island developing States in our multilateral aid programme. We are also working with our partners in the European Union and the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries towards a successful conclusion — a just and equitable conclusion — of the post-Lomé negotiations. The scourge of drug trafficking is a global problem which affects us all. Ireland is fully committed to the fight against drugs and to supporting the efforts of those countries which are already very much affected by this heinous traffic. Full respect for human rights is of fundamental importance to the achievement of all our other goals. As this millennium draws to a close, a series of the most barbaric violations of human rights imaginable in Bosnia, Rwanda, Kosovo and now in East Timor are testaments to our inhumanity to one another. The Secretary-General has produced a compelling report (S/1999/957) to the Security Council on the protection of civilians in armed conflict. We must address, with the utmost speed and seriousness, the Secretary-General's recommendations which are aimed at creating, in his words, a “climate of compliance” with international human rights and humanitarian standards, as set out. The Secretary-General has rightly placed great stress on the necessity to enhance efforts aimed at conflict prevention. His recommendations offer us an opportunity to redeem the pledges we made last year on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It is imperative that the Statute of the International Criminal Court enter into force as soon as possible. A global enforcement mechanism which addresses impunity could also serve as a deterrent to genocide and crimes against humanity, some of which I have just articulated. Ireland will shortly assume the chairmanship of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, an important political forum for enhancing democratic values and stability throughout the continent of Europe. We will seek to promote further cooperation between the Council of Europe and the United Nations in areas of common interest. 27 The shadow of nuclear weapons hangs over us all as we enter the new millennium. We can no longer remain complacent at the absence of progress towards the early elimination of nuclear arsenals. The limited steps that have been taken to date — which we welcome — do not amount to a determined process of elimination. Intent on securing a new consensus on the way forward, I and my colleagues from Brazil, Egypt, Mexico, New Zealand, Slovenia, South Africa and Sweden last year launched an initiative called “Towards a nuclear-weapon- free world: the need for a new agenda”. With the adoption of a resolution on the new agenda in the General Assembly, the international community has demanded a clear perspective for the closure of the nuclear- weapons era. The approach of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) 2000 Review Conference underlines the imperatives of a fundamental change in approach. We require a new commitment on the part of the nuclear-weapon States. This would make the elimination of these weapons an immediate objective rather than an ultimate goal. Earlier this year I had the honour of participating in the first meeting of the States Parties to the Ottawa Convention, held in Maputo. The conclusion of the global ban on landmines is, of course, one of the striking achievements of our time. In this I salute the leadership of Canada, working with determined Governments, including my own, and in cooperation with the non-governmental community. It is the clearest demonstration of what can be achieved when the political will exists. The spread of small arms and the consequences for civilian populations in armed conflict must be confronted now. This traffic in arms is an obscenity and, in many cases, totally and absolutely irresponsible; its brokers know no morality. We must redouble our efforts to address both the supply and demand sides of a threat to the security of civilians that has reached epidemic proportions. We in Ireland are proud of our contribution to world peace through peacekeeping. Just under a year ago Ireland became a full participant in the United Nations standby arrangements system. We currently contribute to eight peacekeeping operations, with over 700 personnel in the field. Our largest commitment is to the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) in southern Lebanon. Our service has not, of course, been without cost. To date 78 Irish peacekeepers have paid the highest price in the service of the United Nations. The changing and more complex nature of peacekeeping involves additional tasks, such as humanitarian assistance, the protection of human rights and civilian police work. Through our participation in the multinational forces operating under United Nations authorization in Kosovo, and soon in East Timor, Ireland is already playing its part in these new arrangements. Our commitment to United Nations peacekeeping remains, as ever, strong, steadfast and loyal. I will conclude by giving a short resume of the situation in Northern Ireland. A number of speakers have referred to the peace process in Northern Ireland during the course of their contributions to this session of the General Assembly, and I very deeply appreciate their remarks in that regard. Their support and, indeed, all the support of all the nations in the United Nations is very deeply appreciated. I will now turn to the evolving situation in that part of my benighted land, Northern Ireland. When I spoke here last year, I was honoured to be the first Minister to be able to report that a comprehensive and broadly based political accommodation had been reached, that is, the Good Friday Agreement of April 1998. The Agreement was reached by the British and Irish Governments and by eight political parties in Northern Ireland following almost two years of intensive negotiations. It was subsequently endorsed by the people of the island with decisive majorities in referendums held in both the north and south, an average between the two parts of the island in the nature of 72 per cent for a permanent peace on the island of Ireland and in favour of the Good Friday Agreement. As I say, it was subsequently endorsed by the people of the island with a decisive majority in a combined context, which I have just spoken about, namely, referendums in the north and south. The Agreement covers not just constitutional issues and political institutions, but a wide range of other matters essential to conflict resolution and the promotion of a fair and just society. All of us gathered here know, often from direct experience, that, though it can be hard to reach an agreement, it is often harder still to implement it. I doubt very much if anyone in Ireland expected the path ahead to be smooth and straight. While very substantial progress has been made, there continue to be frustrations and, of course, difficulties, and I would not seek to minimize the 28 problems we face. But there is still much that is valuable and encouraging. It is true that the peace we have remains imperfect, and there can be no tolerable or acceptable level of violence. In places, tensions between the two communities are worryingly high. But, overall, Northern Ireland is more peaceful than it has been at any time for a generation. Relationships between the two parts of Ireland, and between Britain and Ireland, are closer and more relaxed than they have ever been. And the longer it continues, it is peace which becomes the norm. The people were always entitled to peace. My belief is that now they are coming to expect it. I am confident that no attempt to return to the full-scale violence of the past would win any meaningful support or could be sustained for long. We have turned the corner and there can be no going back. During the past year, much good work has been done to carry the Agreement forward. For instance, its human rights and equality provisions are being given concrete effect, as are measures to promote cultural equality and reconciliation and to assist the victims of violence. The independent commission established under the Agreement to make recommendations on a new beginning to policing in Northern Ireland has recently produced an excellent and thorough report on this very sensitive and important issue. The Irish Government looks forward to playing our part in its implementation. Moreover, the Governments and the parties in the north have completed all of the preparatory technical work necessary to establish the new political institutions envisaged by the Agreement. You can understand, therefore, the disappointment we feel that it has not yet proved possible actually to establish those political institutions. While there is disagreement among some political parties on the precise relationship between the formation of an inclusive executive within Northern Ireland and the decommissioning of paramilitary weapons, there is no difference of view on the desirability of both objectives. However, there is a persistent mutual distrust and lack of confidence, with doubts about future intentions continuing to linger. Under the dedicated and committed leadership of the Taoiseach — my Prime Minister, Mr. Bertie Ahern — and the British Prime Minister, Mr. Blair, the Irish and British Governments and all the parties have devoted enormous energy to the task of seeking to find a generally acceptable way forward. But so far, despite some progress, we have not succeeded in bridging that particular gap. For that reason, we have invited Senator George Mitchell of the United States, who chaired with such skill and judgement the talks which led to the Good Friday Agreement itself, to act as a facilitator of a review. That review is now under way. There is no good reason why it should fail. I cannot believe that is in the interests of anyone that it should fail. The institutional blueprint sketched out in the Agreement and endorsed by the people offers the only rational basis for a lasting peace and for reconciliation through practical partnership and common action. No other conceivable course of action represents a remotely satisfactory alternative. Whatever the short-term difficulties, the Irish Government, in continued cooperation with the British Government, will not cease to work for its implementation. It is not surprising that the stalemate of the past months has led to some doubt and, indeed, disillusionment. But I am convinced that there remains a huge reservoir of support for the Agreement within both the unionist and nationalist communities, provided each can be confident that all aspects will be implemented in full. People are open to persuasion if a reasonable accommodation is on offer. There is therefore an onus on all political representatives to be generous and creative and to be prepared to offer leadership to their own constituencies while reaching out to others — not recklessly, but courageously and honourably. I am convinced that there will be no return to our often bitter past. But it will be possible to realize the full potential of the future only when the Good Friday Agreement is implemented as a totality. The Agreement offers a bold and generous vision of tolerance and partnership between those who together share the island of Ireland. Moreover, it offers a framework within which profound differences can be accommodated without coercion and on the basis of consent. Those of us from within the Irish nationalist tradition value the unionist tradition. We have come to understand, to cherish and to respect its authenticity and, of course, its validity. It is a vital and irreplaceable strand of that diversity of cultures and identities which makes up Ireland as it really is. All over the world, we can see the tragic consequences of policies of domination and exclusion. The future of Ireland can be, should be and, I believe, will be radically different. That is why the task of implementing the Agreement should be completed now, and not left to another generation. 29 In conclusion, as we go forward we know that we retain the support and solidarity of the international community. In this regard I would like to pay particular tribute to the role of the United States and, of course, of President Bill Clinton, who has stood steadfastly beside us throughout the historic process in which we have been engaged. As always, we are deeply grateful for the encouragement of all of our friends, which is and will continue to be hugely important to us. As we benefit from the support of the international community, I wish in turn to pledge Ireland's continuing commitment to the fulfilment of the aims and principles of the Charter of the United Nations.  We are fortunate that the great skills and integrity displayed by His Excellency Mr. Theo- Ben Gurirab, both as freedom fighter and as Foreign Minister of Namibia, will now be at the disposal of the General Assembly. We desperately need those qualities as we wrestle with the challenges that now face our Organization. We are enriched by the presence of our three new Members, the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru and the Kingdom of Tonga. We look forward to the coming millennium with great expectations born out of the many great accomplishments of this century, not least of which has been the creation and preservation of the United Nations. But we would be deceiving ourselves if we did not recognize that the world of peace and security envisioned by the drafters of the Charter is as far from achievement as it was at the beginning of this tormented century. This has indeed been a century of extremes. We have witnessed marvelous scientific and technological advances that could liberate humankind from the drudgery and misery that have always been its lot. At the same time, we have seen more billions spent on means of destruction than on the construction of a better life for the billions who still live in poverty. We have witnessed the spread of democracy around the globe, even as inequality between and within nations grows unabated and countless millions of lives are wasted. All too apparent are the tragic victims of the invisible hand of the market. How much has inequality grown during this century? The 1999 Human Development Report of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) tells us that the income gap between the fifth of the world's people living in the richest countries and the fifth living in the poorest was 11 to 1 in 1913. This had grown to 30 to 1 by 1960, 60 to 1 in 1990, and 74 to 1 in 1997. The report concludes in its “Overview”, at page 2, that “When the market goes too far in dominating social and political outcomes, the opportunities and rewards of globalization spread unequally and inequitably — concentrating power and wealth in a select group of people, nations and corporations, marginalizing the others.” The solution, it posits, is not to stop the expansion of global markets, but to create and enforce the rules for stronger governance, both national and global, to ensure that globalization works for people, not just for profits. This crying need for good global governance is not being answered, and it is one of the most important and fundamental tasks facing the United Nations today. During this century there have been two concerted attempts to collectively provide the framework for a new world order, following periods of catastrophic human behaviour. After the First World War the Versailles Treaty and the Paris Conference created the League of Nations, the International Labour Organization (ILO) and certain economic arrangements. After the Second World War we had the United Nations and the Bretton Woods agreements, which again created new institutional arrangements for regulating a new world order. One of the results of that reordering was the ushering in of the era of decolonization, whereby dozens of countries have emerged and formed part of the family of nations, bringing our number in the United Nations up to 188. Today we have witnessed a real change in the world order no less far-reaching and momentous than the first two, with the end of the cold war, the creation of a unipolar world and the phenomena of globalization and trade liberalization. And still we have not been able to sit together and negotiate universally accepted rules and institutions that are workable and fair for regulating this new order. How can we speak of the victory of democracy in this situation? The institutions that, more than national governments, govern the real lives of billions today — the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the World Bank, the G-7, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), the World Trade Organization (WTO) — are dominated by a few rich and powerful countries, and there is no transparency, no accountability, no effective mechanism for civil society participation. In short, there is no good governance. We, the developing countries, are constantly being urged by the international organizations, by the European Union and others, to practise good governance, and are threatened with sanctions if we do not. For our part, we in Belize and other developing countries accept the need for good governance and are doing our utmost to achieve it. It is time we ensured that these all-powerful organizations themselves practise good governance, abide by a global code of ethics that puts people before profits, respect the diversity of our countries and be fully accountable and transparent. While we have made important advances in enlarging democracy at the national level, we have failed to do so at the global level. Our only hope lies with a reformed United Nations that will ensure that the global institutions that determine the quality of our lives are made democratic and just. Small countries like Belize are understandably concerned about the way in which globalization and trade liberalization are being mismanaged. Yes, we believe in the potential benefits of globalization. Yes, we want to be involved, but as partners, not as victims of larger, more powerful economic interests. Belize became independent just 18 years ago. It has been said that we became independent just when independence ceased to be meaningful as a result of the power of international organizations and transnational companies to determine not just international, but also national economic and social policies. Let me say this clearly: do not expect any of us who won our independence after years of struggle — some involving armed conflict and the sacrifice of many lives — to simply give it up and accept a new form of domination. But what does it mean, especially for small developing countries, to be independent in today's world? It means that we must find a way to make interdependence make independence meaningful. This can best be done through effective regional organizations. In our own region, our vision is to work towards a real integration of the Central American and Caribbean countries, to make the Association of Caribbean States the means of inserting our countries into 2 the world economy with a stronger voice to secure fair terms of trade, greater market access and more beneficial investments. The much vaunted new financial architecture that we seek to construct must be designed to enhance the independence of sovereign States. We can only do this through negotiated agreements that are fair, transparent and consensual and in which developing countries are given a real voice. We are heartened by the words of Mike Moore, Director-General of the WTO, who told us, members of the Group of 77, at Marrakesh that he is totally committed to ensuring that the WTO be a family in which every member has an equal place at the table and that trade liberalization bring real benefits to all countries, but especially to developing countries. We, the smaller and developing countries, must be the beneficiaries of unselfish actions on the part of our developed partners. We are aware that free trade can be kind to the strong and deadly to the weak, and so our call is this: Give us time to adjust and move our economies forward. Help us to develop our capacities and technologies to make our people competitive. We are challenged to narrow the gap between those who earn billions and those who work for pennies. If we are to be successful at this, everyone must be included. Our political ideologies and differences will have to be put aside in the interest of the elimination of poverty. But none of this is possible if we do not face up to meeting the first objective of our institution: the achievement of world peace and security. True, since the inception of our Organization there has not been another world war, but local and regional conflicts have taken a more vicious toll than the two world wars combined. If we are to prevent these human tragedies, we will have to move, in the words of our Secretary-General, from a culture of reaction to a culture of prevention: preventive diplomacy, preventive disarmament, preventive deployment. If only we had followed these prescriptions in East Timor, we could have prevented the large-scale massacres and destruction that were visited on an entire people in the presence of our United Nations Mission, which had assured them that they could exercise their right to self-determination in peace and security. None of us can feel comfortable with the fact that although international agencies in the field had warned of the impending massacre for months, nothing was done to prevent it. We still have the task of ensuring that the people of East Timor can live in peace and enjoy the benefits of their courageous decision to be independent, and Belize pledges its unconditional support for any measures taken by our Organization to this end. We do not fail to recognize and applaud the tremendous success of the United Nations in the eradication of colonialism and occupation. How could we fail to do so, when the very existence of Belize as an independent State is due in no small part to the support of the United Nations? How could we fail to do so, when we recall the role of the United Nations in the independence of Namibia, whose Foreign Minister presides over our Assembly, or when we recall the work of the Fourth Committee in brokering the independence of so many of our present members? But the job is not over till it is over, not until all peoples of the world are guaranteed their right to self-determination and independence in peace and security. In this context, we look forward to welcoming Palestine as a full Member of the United Nations at the millennium summit and to achieving peace and security for all the peoples of that region. As we leave this century of unparalleled suffering and violence, we look forward to creating a better world in the next. None of us can dare predict what awaits us. On the other hand, we must all commit ourselves to try to shape the future in ways that redound to the benefit of all human beings regardless of race, colour, sex, nationality, class, religion or political opinions. We will not succeed in this if we do not succeed in eradicating poverty. Poverty, in the words of the President of the World Bank, is much more than a matter of income alone: the poor seek the sense of well-being which comes from peace of mind, from good health, community and safety, from choice and freedom as well as a steady source of income. A necessary condition for the elimination of all forms of poverty is the creation of fair rules for trade and investment. As my Deputy Prime Minister said at the twenty-second special session, just recently concluded, the Seattle Round of negotiations must be characterized by a willingness to implement the necessary reforms to ameliorate the negative impact of the post-Uruguay arrangements. We — the small, vulnerable, disadvantaged States — must benefit from trade liberalization along with our developed partners. 3 Those partners, however, must live up to the commitments they have made to the world over the past decades: it is scandalous that not only has the promise of dedicating 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product to development assistance not been met, we are getting further from this goal every day, with barely 0.2 per cent of gross domestic product now being so dedicated. Effective solidarity between the haves and the have nots is an essential part of the solution to the problems of marginalization and poverty. That is why we commend the actions of the Republic of China on Taiwan, which has not been reluctant to help less well-endowed countries. Taiwan is a good friend of Belize, and I would like to express here our deep condolences to the people of Taiwan for the tragic consequences of the earthquake that struck recently. It is our hope that the United Nations will be able to embrace the Republic of China on Taiwan in the family of nations, as part of a peaceful and just solution to the China question, one that respects the aspirations and rights of all Chinese people. I would like to endorse the support of our Secretary- General for the concept of individual sovereignty in the sense of the right of every individual to control his or her own destiny. This, of course, presupposes a democratic world, one in which people have the right to participate in decisions that shape their lives. Indeed, such participation defines the very existence of people; I participate, therefore I am. But it is tantamount to putting Descartes before the horse if we do not recognize that people cannot participate effectively if they do not have access to education, to knowledge, to information. My Government has made the provision of such access its number one priority, and I urge the international community to focus its resources on assisting developing countries to empower their peoples through human-resource development programmes. We have squandered billions of dollars and millions of lives in the real or imagined defence of State sovereignty; let us now resolve to dedicate our resources to education, the sine qua non for the realization of personal sovereignty. We all want a better, more just, more peaceful and secure world, and to achieve this we must have a world free of the culture of violence and instant gratification, from the scourge of drug-trafficking: we need a world of tolerance and solidarity. None of this is possible without education. People everywhere, but especially in the underdeveloped countries, are asking what there is to celebrate as we enter the new millennium. The least we can do, the least we owe our people, is tell them the truth and face the reality together. Let us not pretend that the future is bright and untroubled, or that we have the answers to all the problems that plague humanity. Let us instead resolve to work together to harness the power of technology, of science, of the marketplace, so that they act for instead of against humanity. Other speakers before me have called for a new century of human development, for the creation of a new global human order. This dream can become reality when, at last, the powerful agree to sit down with the rest of us as equals and together design the political, economic and social architecture that will ensure global prosperity along with global justice. Only then will the world live in peace and proclaim, in the words of the prophet Isaiah: “And he shall judge among the nations, and shall rebuke many people: and they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning-hooks: nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more.” (The Holy Bible, Isaiah 2:4) Amen.  As the curtain falls on the twentieth century, this time-honoured institution, the United Nations, rejoices in the presence of two distinguished Africans at the helm. The outstanding freedom fighter of Namibia, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab occupies our presidential perch, while our principled, purposeful and persuasive Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, like the proverbial Ol’ Man River, keeps rolling along, relentlessly serene in his pursuit of world peace and human development. If Africa is the last impression of the twentieth century, poetic justice demands that it must be our first preoccupation in the twenty-first century. This international forum must readjust the balance over centuries. We must pay for our dereliction of duty over Rwanda and the Congo. We must remove the remaining vestige of apartheid, and we must make a quantum leap in eliminating poverty and disease by addressing the causes of poverty. The Caribbean has always leapt over the restrictions of size and resources to embrace the global vision of a liberated world, and the liberation of Africa plays a 24 seminal role in this process. Caribbean thinkers such as Padmore, C.L.R. James, Professor Arthur Lewis, Dr. Eric Williams and Dr. Walter Rodney have all sought to sensitize the world to the catalytic role which Africa must play in global development. We recognize, however, that an essential condition for fulfilling this role must be the overcoming of the underdevelopment that plagues that continent. But if we are to progress in that direction, we must first boldly admit that disunity among the countries of Africa has much to do with this condition. In an era when other geographic regions and continents have been uniting for economic advancement, the African continent remains divided. The time has come, therefore, for the Organization of African Unity (OAU) to go further than just making declarations of unity. Pan- Africanism must not continue to remain stunted, as it was at the threshold of the sixties. African leaders and statesmen must show the resolve and the unwavering character of Nelson Mandela, and give African children, born and unborn, hope in the future of Africa. In this regard, the results of the recent Algiers summit of the OAU are therefore most welcome, for the summit has demonstrated a new sense of urgency and commitment on the part of the new leaders of Africa. The United Nations must not fail to support this progressive development. For our part, Saint Lucia, mindful of the African heritage of our people, will exhort our Caribbean colleagues to consider applying for associate status with the OAU and to consolidate further our solidarity in the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) forum. Our call for unity is not being sent only to our brothers in Africa. It goes out also to all developing countries, be they in the Caribbean, Latin America, Asia or elsewhere. If we in the developing world are to have a better future in the new millennium, if we are to obtain any benefits from the new international systems that are evolving around us, we cannot depend only on the goodwill of the countries of the developed world. There must be unity of action and purpose among us; there must be an end to the in-fighting, the skirmishes, and the wars between us. The South-South Summit in Havana next year will provide an excellent opportunity for cementing solidarity on issues of common concern and deciding on a forward-looking agenda for the development of our people. In the Commonwealth Caribbean, we the members of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) can be proud of the 25-year integration movement in which we have been engaged. We are in the process of completing arrangements for the creation of a single market and economy and for the establishment of a Caribbean court of justice that will be the final appellate court for CARICOM member countries. But, certainly, we must recognize that while we have made progress, we have not gone far enough. In October, the heads of Government of the Caribbean Community will meet in a special session in Trinidad and Tobago to consider the future governance of the Caribbean Community. We urge the leaders of CARICOM, in what will be their final meeting of the century, to take decisions on the future of CARICOM that will erase from the memories of West Indian people all the hurt, all the pain, all the disappointments of our failed attempts at closer political union during this century. Let the occasion for their October meeting be the springboard that catapults West Indians into what will truly be a new era. Let our people enter the new millennium with a CARICOM that will be fully integrated, economically and politically. We can extend this tableau to embrace the Non-Self- Governing Territories of our region. My Government was pleased to have hosted, in May of this year, the annual United Nations seminar of the Special Committee on Decolonization to review the economic, political and constitutional developments in the remaining small island Non-Self-Governing Territories. This highly successful seminar brought together representatives from Governments and non-governmental organizations and experts from the Caribbean and Pacific regions. This important activity resulted in the adoption by the Special Committee of targeted recommendations in the furtherance of the decolonization of these Territories. To this end, we strongly support a second decade on decolonization to focus on the socio-economic, political and constitutional development of the remaining small island Territories, which are integral components of both the Caribbean and the Pacific regions. But the realization of these regional goals turns on the full emergence of Cuba as a vital and creative force in the integration and development of the Caribbean. This emergence is frustrated by the inability of the United Nations to harness the political will to remove the inhumane sanctions imposed by the United States on the Cuban people, despite the successive overwhelming votes religiously taken every year in the Assembly. At the fifty- third session of the General Assembly, 157 countries voted in favour of resolution 53/4 to end the economic embargo against Cuba. The totally callous disregard for the cumulative will of the Assembly is the touchstone which characterizes the relationship between the super- 25 Power leviathan and the 187 Lilliputian nations that talk and vote in this forum. Where is the democracy of which we speak? Where is the mutual respect for sovereign nations? Where is the humanity? The events in Rwanda, Kosovo and East Timor have drawn serious lessons for the international community. The spectre of an effete United Nations looking on helplessly while Member nations intervene unilaterally is a nightmare on the eve of the new millennium. It is for this reason that Saint Lucia strongly supports the call by Secretary-General Kofi Annan for the United Nations to be empowered to take action, whether militarily or otherwise, to stop crimes against humanity. Saint Lucia remains concerned at the systematic weakening and marginalization of the United Nations. In this regard, attention is drawn to its operational activities and its development programmes, particularly the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). We call on donor countries to reconsider the effects of the budget cuts on regional and country programmes. We need a United Nations that not only carries out its peacekeeping and humanitarian capacities, but one that also plays a central role in the governance of globalization and trade liberalization to ensure that globalization is about development. Our common humanity must demonstrate itself in our prompt response to natural disasters in each other's countries. The people of Taiwan have been the most recent victims of devastating earthquakes, which claimed the lives of thousands of innocent people. We commiserate with them. It is at such critical moments that the spirit of brotherhood must emerge. There was a surge of hope at the news that the People's Republic of China had pledged assistance to the Taiwanese across the Taiwan Strait. Let us hope that the Creator is working in a mysterious way to bring about the peaceful and mutually agreeable reunification of the Chinese people on this occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of China. Our own island State of Montserrat continues to struggle to recover from the destruction caused by volcanic eruptions. Yet the international community continues to exclude this small island from concessional assistance on the basis of its high gross national product per capita, calculated from its small population and inflows of assistance, mainly from the United Kingdom. The United Nations, in particular the Committee for Development Policy, must take the lead role in the revision of the criteria for concessional assistance to include vulnerabilities and qualitative data including openness of the economy and economic shocks. The sustainable development of small developing countries will remain a dream unless these fundamental structural and systemic biases are addressed. Saint Lucia is particularly concerned about the exclusion of transnational corporations from the rules of engagement the World Trade Organization (WTO) sets for trade, since a large percentage of the financing for our development comes from trade in one commodity. Saint Lucia will continue to call for an integrated approach to the consideration of trade and finance in the context of the upcoming conference on financing for development and for the participation of all actors, including the Bretton Woods institutions and the WTO, under the leadership of the United Nations. The dispute over the arrangements for the marketing of bananas has been particularly distasteful. People in member countries of the European Union are being punished through sanctions by the United States for the support of their Governments for the banana marketing regime. That country continues to promote the interests of its multinational companies involved in the banana trade at the expense of smaller economies. There are at the moment proposals on the table designed to put in place a new WTO-compatible system for the marketing of bananas in Europe. All parties, particularly producing countries, are of the view that a tariff rate quota system is the most viable regime for all concerned. A continuation of the tariff rate quota is essential for ensuring that the market continues to generate adequate prices. Yet the United States transnationals engaged in the industry are instead promoting a simple or linear tariff mechanism that will have disastrous effects for Caribbean producers. Saint Lucia and other ACP countries have expressed dissatisfaction with this recommendation. We again implore all European Union member States to revisit this choice and to consider its implications for Saint Lucia and other ACP countries. We are inherently unequal trading partners, and the WTO should not subject small economies to liberalization and unbridled competition on an equal footing with economies and corporations far more advanced than they are and expect them to survive. Saint Lucia again calls on the international community, including the WTO, to differentiate between trading partners and promote fair trade through special and differential treatment, not on a voluntary basis, but as a contractual obligation. 26 Saint Lucia has been in the forefront of the fight for the survival of small island States. To quote the words of the President of the United States in his recent address to the Assembly, “We must refuse to accept a future in which one part of humanity lives on the cutting edge of a new economy, while the other lives at the knife edge of survival” (A/54/PV.6). Globalization has left us on the knife edge of survival. We are thankful to Europe for empathizing with our vulnerabilities, and we regret that they have attracted the wrath of sanctions for their pains. Between the rhetoric and the reality lies the gaping wound of disillusion and despair. President Clinton rightly posed the question: “Will globalism bring shared prosperity, or will it make the desperate of the world even more desperate?” (supra). Saint Lucia can confidently attest to the truth that the small States and the developing world are desperate, and that their desperation is compounded by the fact that the global preoccupation with money and markets is fast destroying the values and sacred norms in our respective countries. “Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey Where wealth accumulates, and men decay”. (Oliver Goldsmith, The Deserted Village) The decadence and moral turpitude that has taken over our paradise of an island is unbelievable. The conspiracy that threatens to decimate our bananas has left us with tourism as a strategy for diversification. The twin monsters of drugs and crime promise to overrun us, and the filth that spews from cable television pours into our homes. Some of these homes are nothing more than vile little hovels whose inhabitants are sustained at night by religion and unemployed by day. The decay is all-pervasive, and women from nearby territories are imported to ply their sordid trade in strip-tease joints. We have lost our innocence; this is the surest legacy that globalization has visited upon us. We cannot be swayed by the rhetoric of partnership when the relentless logic of globalization is geared to decimate, to marginalize and to eliminate. The developing world must focus closely on the Seattle Round and ensure that the wide sweep of liberalization and open markets does not wash us away. If the dogmatism and inflexibility of powerful States threaten our survival, then we must band together in a “Trade Union of the Poor” to seek justice and humanity. No poison is a necessary drink, and we cannot be expected to swallow globalization's cup of hemlock for the greater glory of the shapers of the new millennium. We want a new millennium shaped by all Member States, addressing the needs and interests of all, and beneficial to all. We share our apprehension with this body. We will work in the embrace of its wise Charter, but we would describe globalization in the words of the Irish poet William Butler Yeats: “And what rough beast, its hour come round at last, Slouches towards Bethlehem to be born?” (The Second Coming)  On behalf of my delegation and on my own behalf, it is with great satisfaction that I wish to extend to you, Sir, our congratulations on your well-deserved election to preside over the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session, which is coinciding with the end of a momentous century. It is indeed a source of immense pleasure and pride to my delegation and myself to see you presiding over this forum where you, as the representative here of the South West Africa People’s Organization for many years, waged an unrelenting struggle for the independence of your country, Namibia, which was crowned with success in 1990. Your assumption of this high office is a fitting tribute to the struggle of the many sons and daughters of Africa over the years for the total emancipation of Africa from colonial rule. I wish to assure you of the fullest cooperation of my delegation in the discharge of the heavy responsibilities entrusted to you. I wish also to seize this opportunity to convey to your predecessor, Mr. Didier Opertti, our appreciation for a job well done, and we salute him for all the efforts he has made. 23 I should also like to welcome the new Members of our Organization: the Republic of Nauru, the Kingdom of Tonga and the Republic of Kiribati. To our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for whom my country has great esteem, I wish to renew our friendship and to reiterate how much we have always appreciated his wisdom and his vision. His being at the helm of the world body is indeed one of the few consolations for Africa, a continent which otherwise has little voice within the Organization. This annual occasion, here at this forum, affords us a unique opportunity to express our views as Member States on issues that are of concern to us as members of the human family, as part of specific regions of the world and in our capacity as nations. The 170 items on the Assembly’s agenda at this session are clear testimony to the range of issues confronting the international community as we approach the coming millennium. It is not, however, always easy to separate these various levels of concern. They are obviously interconnected, and all the more so for countries such as Ethiopia, whose fates are affected, positively or negatively, by what takes place internationally and by what the United Nations does and does not do. It goes without saying that developing countries in general, and the least developed countries in particular, as a group, face the most serious problems in all areas of international life. Problems of poverty, underdevelopment and the debt burden are among the multifarious problems the developing countries are grappling with today. As a least developed country, Ethiopia has its own share of these problems, the magnitude of which is all too obvious, even as we are making a determined effort to overcome them. In this statement I will not try to go into all the problems facing developing countries today. Instead, I should like to focus on one issue: collective security, especially in relation to its impact on developing countries, those in Africa in particular, and how the United Nations has failed them in this critical area. For Ethiopia this is all the more justified and timely inasmuch as we have been the victim of aggression — not for the first time in our history — for over a year now. The United Nations has been important to us, and the promise contained in its Charter to be our collective instrument for international peace and security and a vehicle for international cooperation in all areas of human endeavour has been a source of hope. But we in Ethiopia are not so sure that the hope we have is always justified, both as Africans and as Ethiopians. From the vantage point of Africa, it is indeed difficult to assert with confidence that the Organization is also ours. This must also apply to the rest of the developing world. But the African case is unique. Whether it is in the area of economic cooperation or with respect to peace and security, our continent continues to be a region of the world which is the least favoured for effective and meaningful cooperation. The “We the peoples of the United Nations” mentioned in the Preamble to the Charter and the lofty aspirations contained therein continue to be distant dreams for Africa. This might be regarded by some as an exaggerated claim and an attempt to shift the blame for a predicament which is of Africa’s own making and therefore a harsh judgment on the performance of the United Nations. We in Ethiopia would be the first to acknowledge the critical value for us of the very many types of cooperation we have with the United Nations and its various agencies, some of which have indeed been very effective. It would be unfair to the Organization and to many of its dedicated staff for us to fail to acknowledge this. In this regard, a balanced evaluation of the performance of the United Nations cannot fail to take note of the good work being done by the Organization in the economic, social and humanitarian areas. This is apart from the indispensable role that the United Nations and its various agencies, most particularly its specialized agencies, play in harmonizing the activities of nations in various critical spheres. It is also true that Africa and, in particular, some of its individual countries, appear to have a unique way of ensuring that available opportunities are missed for making progress for peace and development. But still the African condition can hardly be explained only in terms of omission or commission by the people of the continent. It would suffice to refer to the cold war and to the super-Power rivalry spawned by that episode and to the havoc wrought by it in Africa to be reminded that Africa’s pains are not always of its own making. Whatever the causes for Africa’s predicament, however, the spirit of common destiny, interdependence and the ideals of the Charter of the United Nations should have obliged the international community to be more forthcoming in rendering effective cooperation to regions 24 such as Africa so that they can overcome the obstacles to development faced by their peoples. The fact that there is no international cooperation at present in the spirit of the United Nations Charter is nowhere more evident than in the circumstances surrounding the debt burden, which continues to remain the most critical factor hindering development and the alleviation of poverty. There have so far been no effective steps taken internationally to alleviate this scourge, and there is no visible remedy on the horizon. This is a telling testimony to how much the promise contained in the Charter about international cooperation has remained an empty slogan. If our vision for the United Nations for the century we are entering does not incorporate a remedy to this danger, then for the bulk of humanity the Organization is bound to be more irrelevant than it is today. It is not only that the United Nations is about to enter the next century with little to show in bringing about genuine international cooperation for combating poverty. Even more worrying is that it is going to do so with its credibility very much in tatters with regard to its collective security system, which at present commands little trust as a collective instrument of the international community for world peace and security. Whether during the cold war or since it, in this area the United Nations, more often than not, has remained a custodian not of the collective security interests of the people of the world, but of the special security interests of those who count. Here is where double standards abound, even with respect to the defense of some sacrosanct principles of international law. Africa can hardly be proud of the way it has handled even the very little opportunity it has had for establishing durable peace and security in the continent. Even after having granted that the difficult socio-economic conditions of the region have been the major causes for the African dilemma in this area, the fact still remains that bad governance, mismanagement of resources, lack of tolerance for diversity and human rights violations have indeed fuelled some of the conflicts in our continent. Therefore we cannot absolve ourselves fully from taking part of the blame. In the final analysis, we have to find our own solution to these problems. But, on the other hand, the fact remains that Africa has received little effective international cooperation, in particular from the United Nations, for sorting out its difficulties in the area of peace and security. Conflicts in Africa have had the fate of either being neglected or, when not neglected, being judged and handled by different standards. Let me give a couple of illustrations. The genocide in Rwanda is a source of shame for Africa, but it was also a reminder of the double standards to which Africa has been subjected. The fact that Somalia and its people have been left to their own devices, regardless of the consequences for the people of Somalia and for the peace and stability of their neighbours, is yet another indication of the types of conflicts which elicit, or fail to elicit, the serious concern of those who count for galvanizing the efforts of the United Nations for action to discharge its responsibilities for collective security. Why should it matter to those who set the agenda for what the Security Council does if the chaos in Somalia becomes a breeding ground for terrorism, as long as the threat is limited only to those who have little voice in the Security Council? The conflict in Somalia is indeed complex, but it is no more complex than other conflicts in other parts of the world. Somalia is in turmoil and has been for the last nine years, not because the crisis is intractable, but because Somalia is neglected. That country has failed to be on the top of the United Nations agenda, not because it has no legitimate claim to be a priority for the United Nations collective security system, but because the interests of those who count are not affected. This also applies more or less to Angola and Sierra Leone, and earlier to Liberia. In short, the United Nations has failed Africa, and now stands, one foot into the next century, with this record. In connection with Somalia, I should like to state that Ethiopia, the country mandated by the Organization of African Unity (OAU) to follow up and assist in resolving the crisis in Somalia, fully supports the initiatives expounded by Mr. Ismail Omar Guelleh, President of the Republic of Djibouti from this rostrum last week in his capacity as current Chairman of the Inter- Governmental Authority on Development (IGAD). The experience of my own country over the last year and a half and more speaks volumes about how the United Nations can fail an African country deemed to have no option other than submit to unjust decisions by the powerful. In effect, what the United Nations said to Ethiopia was that Article 51 of the Charter, which provides for the inherent right of sovereign nations to self-defence, did not apply to poor nations such as Ethiopia. That has been our experience in our attempts to 25 ensure the peaceful resolution of the Ethiopian-Eritrean crisis caused by the unprovoked Eritrean aggression against us. Until May 1998, Ethiopia was nurturing the peace that it had finally achieved after decades of turmoil. The Eritrean problem — one of the sources of instability for Ethiopia — was settled, with Ethiopia leading the way in recognizing the new nation of Eritrea. Ethiopia became a bulwark of peace in our subregion — a fact which was recognized by many. By demobilizing half a million troops and allocating the barest minimum from its budget — less than 2 per cent of its gross domestic product — to defence, the country was making it clear in its actions that poor nations have time to wage war only against their principal enemy, poverty — poverty and backwardness. The new orientation of the country did produce dividends, most of all in terms of economic growth: average GDP growth of over 7 per cent per year was achieved, after a difficult period of transition. But then, tragedy struck and we fell victim to Eritrean aggression. The unprovoked aggression against us by Eritrea in May 1998 taught us the lesson that peace is not always achieved by the unilateral decision of nations so long as there are rogue States that worship the gun and with leaders who have no domestic limitations on the power they exercise or on the decisions they make. Eritrea has become a source of tragedy not only for Ethiopia but also for its own people and for the countries of the subregion. No sooner had it achieved formal independence, in 1993, than it provoked a fight with the Sudan, to be followed by an unprovoked onslaught on Yemen in November 1995. Continuing the same pattern of lawlessness, in 1996 Eritrea again went ahead and claimed, by use of force, part of Djibouti’s territory — a reckless attempt which was defused in time, thanks also to efforts by Ethiopia. The Eritrean aggression against Ethiopia in May 1998 was therefore part of the same vivid pattern of behaviour as before, behaviour which has now made the country a major source of instability for our subregion, particularly in Somalia, where Eritrea’s destructive activities have caused even more havoc in a nation with no functioning State at all. Thus, consistent with its ignoble motive of exploiting the anarchy and lawlessness in Somalia to advance its irresponsible policy of destabilizing the countries in the Horn of Africa, Eritrea is actively collaborating with the warlords in Somalia by arming and training them and financing their fratricidal conflict, thereby exacerbating the already volatile and unclear state of affairs in the country with all the attendant adverse consequences for peace and stability in our subregion. Ever since the onset of the Eritrean aggression against Ethiopia, people have been asking how one of the youngest and poorest nations on earth, whose people have barely emerged from the trauma of a protracted liberation struggle, can have the capacity to embark upon one of the most destructive campaigns of destabilization the entire Horn of Africa subregion — or even the whole of Africa for that matter — has ever seen. Over and above the question of Eritrea’s capacity, people have been wondering what the motive can be that is driving such acts on the part of a new Member of the family of nations, acts with serious implications for peace and security in our region. The answer to these questions is not difficult to find. To be a destructive force among nations does not require any special capacity or resources. Small States can create havoc and make life difficult for the international community just as large States can. In fact, an extremist group on the fringes of international life, with no elaborate organizational structure, can without much effort succeed in destabilizing an entire region let alone a vulnerable subregion like ours. In effect, it does not seem as if it requires any special capacity to be a rogue State. Rogue States as such are not born, they become so of their own volition. That is what we see in Eritrea today: the Eritrean Government is now working hand in glove not only with disgruntled groups in our subregion but also with international terrorists, training, financing and giving them all-round support in their ultimate objective of destabilizing the States of the subregion. We do not believe the source of this Eritrean behaviour is external. It is internal: it emanates from the nature of the domestic political structure in that country. If the domestic political process in a country has no constraining factors to speak of on its leadership, this, sooner or later, is bound to have a negative impact on the peace and security of the States of that subregion. In Eritrea this phenomenon is clearly visible today. A total absence of domestic institutions necessary for a normal State; the lack of accountability on the part of the leadership; the non-existence of even a semblance of checks and balances — in effect the absence of a constitutional order — are the distinguishing features of Eritrea today. Pluralism; freedom of association and 26 expression; the right to express dissent — are unknown in Eritrea. Democratic elections are, of course, unheard of there. In fact, Eritrea has nothing to do with the international community in terms of observance of fundamental human rights and freedoms and good governance since it is, for all practical purposes, ruled by the whims of one man. The net effect of these domestic political characteristics and their impact on peace and security in our subregion is that more than any other people it is, in the final analysis, the Eritrean people that are suffering most, bearing the brunt of the hardship resulting from their Government’s destabilizing policies and activities in the Horn of Africa. No one who has closely followed this tragedy visited on Ethiopia by the Eritrean leadership can be unaware of how much effort Ethiopia has made, for over nine months, to ensure the reversal of the Eritrean aggression through peaceful means. But it was to no avail. And, most regrettably, the United Nations failed us. In contrast, I should like to express my Government’s admiration and gratitude for the commendable stand taken by OAU and Africa throughout the crisis in defence of the principles on which this Organization was founded. However, despite the efforts of the OAU, Eritrea did not listen. The United Nations pretended, even though it knew better, that there had been no aggression. The Security Council went even further, as did some in the international community, in a coordinated effort to punish the victim of aggression, without so much as a word about the aggression or about the gross violations of international law committed by a country known to have developed the habit of acting in a lawless manner. The members of the Security Council knew full well right from the outset that Eritrea had committed a naked and unprovoked act of aggression against Ethiopia. Yet they chose to characterize a blatant violation of a fundamental principle of international law as a mere border dispute. This, to say the least, is an evasion of the primary responsibility of the Security Council for the maintenance of international peace and security. It clearly signified a failure on the part of the Council to uphold the most hallowed principle of international law, namely, the prohibition of the use of force in international relations, except in self-defence. It is a negation of the very concept of collective security in which all States, big and small, placed their confidence when they subscribed to the Charter of the United Nations. As if to underscore its failure to uphold the international rule of law, the Security Council, in its very first resolution on the Ethiopian-Eritrean conflict, adopted on 26 June 1998, demanded an immediate ceasefire, in effect rewarding aggression. What better demonstration could there be of the Council’s failure to take a determined stand against aggression by demanding that it be reversed before calling for a ceasefire? What better incentive could there be for aggressors like Eritrea to continue with their aggression and reap even more fruits from their wanton acts? Even more disheartening and gratuitous was the statement issued on 23 June 1999 by the Security Council reminding us of “our primary responsibility to feed our peoples”, as if poor nations did not have the right to defend their sovereignty. Or was it meant to imply that the very notion of sovereignty is of no consequence at all for a poor country like Ethiopia? That, history will recall, was what the League of Nations told us, if not in so many words, more than 60 years ago. But this was not what we expected from the United Nations today. To make matters worse, the Security Council chose, on 10 February 1999, through resolution 1227 (1999), to urge States to end sales of arms both to the aggressor and to the victim, while at the same time continuing to deliberate on how the peace proposal submitted by the Organization of African Unity, and already accepted by Ethiopia, could be modified to make it acceptable to the aggressor at the expense of the victim. This was again the essence of the informal deliberations by the Security Council on 24 February 1999. The aggressor country was in effect told to wait until the victim of aggression gave in to pressure. The refusal by a poor nation to accept insult, a nation which happened to be the victim of aggression, obviously entails certain consequences. The punishment meted out has had almost no limits. It has included financial institutions changing the rules of the game in midstream. In the case of Ethiopia, they saw fit to abrogate ongoing programmes based on non-technical considerations that had absolutely nothing to do with the results of actual performance evaluations. That has been the experience of Ethiopia with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which suspended its cooperation with Ethiopia on political grounds, although it knew full well that it had absolutely no cause for that action on the basis of the relevant criteria. 27 Once the tone was set by the Security Council, others found it easy to overlook the injustice involved and added their weight to a stance which made a mockery of elementary justice. The European Union and other institutions and countries jumped on the bandwagon, making it clear to Ethiopia that a poor nation is not entitled to defend itself and that not heeding this warning would have its consequences. And it did. Ethiopia’s fault was one and only one, and that was its insistence that aggression cannot and must not be rewarded through the use of whatever pretext, including calls for an unconditional ceasefire, which was demanded by the aggressor and thought to be in accord with the interests of those who count. The sovereign rights of the victim did not count. That was the implication for our whole region of the lawless Eritrean philosophy of grabbing land first and then inviting the victims for talks. I should not, however, give the impression that everybody has been inconsiderate to my country in its hour of need. Indeed, there are countries and institutions that duly value partnership in development which stood by us, realizing that discontinuing development assistance to the victim of aggression would be tantamount to rewarding that aggression. Those countries have not only continued their assistance but also, in some cases, increased it. On behalf of the people of Ethiopia, I should like to express our deep gratitude to those countries and institutions, whose demonstration of solidarity we will always cherish. In the light of this experience, it is indeed difficult to keep intact our trust in the United Nations and in international cooperation. It is also difficult to have faith in the efficacy of the United Nations collective security system. The United Nations cannot avoid sharing the blame for the bloodshed and destruction that followed the nine-month Eritrean intransigence. The Ethiopian-Eritrean crisis eventually led to major fighting, not only because the aggressor was intransigent and refused to give peace a chance, but also because the United Nations failed to speak in defence of principles of international law. With respect to the aggression against Ethiopia by Eritrea, it is the justified feeling of the Ethiopian people that the failure of the United Nations to stand up for its principles is indeed comparable to the injustice done to my country by the League of Nations in 1936. But this episode has wider implications over and above Ethiopia. It raises a fundamental question with regard to the ability of the United Nations to be a guardian of the principles of international law — a guardianship which would have no financial implications when limited to a mere affirmation of principles. The United Nations has shown us that it cannot even do this. Why this should be so calls for a response, which, if given with candour, should invite drastic measures so that we can have a United Nations which provides a home to all in equal measure. As for Ethiopia’s commitment to peace, that cannot be questioned, as has been made clear consistently since Eritrea’s aggression. Ethiopia’s position has always been consistent. Aggression, we have said, cannot be rewarded. Peace requires its reversal. That is what every nation would have demanded if it had found itself in Ethiopia’s position. Ethiopia has asked for nothing more. Eritrea now says it is prepared to do what it could have done a year and half ago — something that the United Nations never dared to ask it to do. While this in itself is Ethiopia’s vindication, experience has nonetheless taught us a lesson: we must ensure that there are no loopholes in any agreement reached on the withdrawal of Eritrean troops from Ethiopian territory occupied by force. This is the nature of the ongoing dialogue we are now engaged in with the OAU. There is absolutely no reason why it should be difficult to address the legitimate concerns of the victim of aggression with regard to the clarity of the commitments undertaken by the aggressor country. Indeed, the principles involved should be protected in the interests not only of Ethiopia but also of our subregion and beyond. The lawlessness and contempt for the principles of international law demonstrated by Eritrea, which have now poisoned the whole region, must be contained. This can be done at the minimum by sending a clear message to its leadership that enough is enough and that aggression should not pay. This is all the more necessary with respect to those who, in the absence of even a semblance of institutions of governance in the country, are above the law and have little accountability. That is why we have insisted, and continue to insist, that Eritrea must be allowed to gain nothing from its lawlessness. That is why we have insisted, and continue to insist — not without sacrifice — that there should be no loopholes in agreements concluded so that the principle that aggression should not be rewarded is underlined clearly and with no ambiguity. We thus remain hopeful — hoping against hope — that Ethiopia’s concerns will be addressed adequately, thereby making it 28 easier to put behind us the nightmare created by the Eritrean aggression. The United Nations is at a crossroads. It cannot limp along and enter the next century with all its weaknesses unattended. Reforms are necessary. The Security Council cannot remain as it is, unrepresentative and unresponsive to the interests of the majority. It is still not too late to restore confidence in the collective security system envisioned in the Charter of our Organization more than half a century ago. The credibility of the United Nations needs to be revived. How can the United Nations command the trust of all Member States and their peoples? That is one of the questions with which the United Nations will have to grapple as we enter the twenty-first century.   I am greatly pleased to extend my warmest congratulations to our newly elected President of the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. Also, I join previous speakers in expressing our debt of gratitude to the outgoing President, Mr. Didier Opertti, for his able stewardship of the proceedings of the Assembly during the past session. I welcome the newcomers to the United Nations family, Kiribati, Nauru and Tonga. It has not been an easy year for our Secretary-General. We all appreciate his wisdom and sense of balance in steering the reform process of the United Nations itself with a firm hand at a time of profound change on the international scene. Whether we like it or not, globalization is upon us. A satisfactory definition of the term may not be yet available, but we all feel the effects of it: pervasive; subtle or less so; disturbing; sometimes perverse; and, above all, challenging. The end of a millennium and the advent of a new one is a good time for reflection. It is not just coping with the millennium bug, which may cause our computers to go awry; it is — to use the Secretary General's well polished phrase — a “symbolically compelling moment”. It is not for me to answer the question of where we are and where we are heading: the collective wisdom of the United Nations Member States, assisted by academia and, we hope, by civil society too, will take charge of that at the millennium summit next year. I think we must take that event seriously: although we may have a lot to celebrate, we still have a lot more to do, earnestly, pragmatically and effectively. Like all good things, globalization produces beneficial effects; then again, as happens with most good things, those benefits are not evenly distributed: those who are better equipped to face the challenge of going global will reap its fruits sooner, while those who are not will have to try harder. What I mean is that as we talk about globalization we do not have to indulge ourselves in slogans or idolatry: globalization involves great benefits, but also great risks. We should not forget that our century first experienced the dark side of globalization: world war. Luckily, it is also globalization — this time in its good sense — that can make it impossible for conflicts to become chronic, because the whole world instantly learns about any local dispute and mobilizes all available energies to identify and implement solutions. The moral underpinning of globalization is called solidarity. One could say that in its very structures and goals the United Nations anticipated contemporary globalization: the United Nations is all about institutionalized solidarity, and to belong to this Organization means making solidarity the norm of best conduct. Social, political and economic solidarity; cultural, inter-ethnic and regional solidarity; solidarity born out of respect for values, and fostered by goodwill and good faith — these are the ethics that we wish for the forthcoming millennium. It should be clear that the individual must necessarily be the beneficiary of any form of solidarity: international organizations, States and governments do not acquire legitimacy and cannot be judged otherwise than through their impact on individual destiny. The real man or woman, rather than generic mankind, and the values embodied by the human species, rather than self-serving projects, are the true subjects of politics. This way of thinking has lately brought up the issue of humanitarian intervention, human rights and reform of the system of international law. This is a sensitive issue and one full of pitfalls. There are those who say that we should not tolerate legal injustice under the pretext of 39 humanitarian intervention. That is true. Similarly, some say that we should tolerate either social injustice nor crime under the pretext of non-interference in domestic affairs. Undoubtedly respect for human rights is primarily the responsibility of national Governments and State institutions. However, if they do not fulfil this task, there should be an instrument capable of enforcing respect for international standards and there is no better instrument for doing so than the United Nations. Preventing conflicts is a complex undertaking. Unfortunately, we do not always have time to act subtly and imaginatively. We are not doing enough in the field of education in the sense of cultivating values of respect for the integrity of the individual and for his or her right to be different. We do not always understand in time that the most efficient way to fight war and violence is to fight poverty. We do not always know how to distinguish between political manoeuvring and public interest, between national pride and universally valid principles. We must reflect on these things not only when crises are unleashed but instantly calmly and clear-mindedly. There is no simple way of coping with complexity. It requires vision, enlightened foresight, careful planning and hard work. The revolutionary changes of ten years ago in Central and Eastern Europe and the ensuing process of transition were essentially focused on values — political pluralism, parliamentary democracy, separation of powers, individual freedom, market economy and human rights, including the rights of people belonging to ethnic, religious or other minorities. Those values prevailed because they were right, because they survived in our hearts and minds through decades of totalitarian communist oppression, and because they were embraced by the vast majority of people in our countries. But shared values themselves are not enough to build a truly prosperous democratic society: they have to be underpinned by an equally coherent set of institutions designed to serve and actually implement those values. The two — values and institutions — are inextricably linked in a functioning democracy, and it is precisely from this linkage that the indispensable ingredient for further progress arises: leadership. That, in a nutshell, is the substance of good governance. We are reminded here of the idea that: “The important thing for government is not to do things which individuals are doing already, and to do them a little bit better or a little bit worse, but to do those things which at present are not done at all.” [John Maynard Keynes, “The End of Laissez-Faire”] We in Romania, much like those in many other Central and East European countries, have been and still are learning that simple truth the hard way in a difficult and sometimes painful process of transition. It is in that spirit and in recognition of the international dimension of good governance at a time of global change that the Romanian delegation has submitted a draft code of democratic conduct (A/54/178, annex) for examination by the Assembly this session. The text before the Assembly is the result of extensive consultations and includes meaningful contributions from many quarters based upon the original framework from the Conferences of New or Restored Democracies. The important — and I would say, novel — thing about this document is that, in addition to listing principles and stating general aims, it also spells out practical modalities for carrying them out in the political, legal, administrative, economic and social spheres. Last but not least, it emphasizes the crucial role of non-institutional players — business communities, unions, non-governmental organizations, civil society, the media — in shaping policies and in building consensus for implementation. In a changing world, the world Organization itself is also changing. The scope and pace of its reform and adaptation to the new realities and requirements may have been uneven, patchy in some respects and even disappointing, but the process has gained momentum and there are hopeful signs for steady progress in the future. The United Nations is uniquely equipped by its structure and acquired expertise to seek specific rather than standard solutions to specific problems. Every crisis we have had to face in recent years and months had a physiognomy of its own. To be effective, the response must match the challenge in terms of innovative complexity. In relation to the enlargement of the Security Council membership and its improved performance, we believe that proper consideration should be given to the interests of all regional groups, including the Group of Eastern European States, which has seen the most spectacular rise in numbers over the past three decades. Romania welcomed the initiative to create the United Nations Stand-by Forces High-Readiness Brigade and takes part in it. Recent events across the world have demonstrated the urgent need to make it operational as soon as possible. We have been reminded of this in a most dramatic fashion by the recent events in East Timor. Romanian contingents took part in several United 40 Nations-led and other peacekeeping, peace support and policing operations and are further prepared to improve and diversify their contribution to such activities. Our cooperation with the United Nations agencies has become better focused and more effective. I should like to mention the importance we attach to the support of the United Nations Development Programme in designing and managing specific, high-priority projects for Romania, notably in public administration, in the preparation of a national strategy for sustainable development and of a local Agenda 21 programme. Further useful work is expected to be done jointly with the World Bank for the formulation of a comprehensive development framework at both the national and the regional level. The Balkan tragedy has been in the headlines for the whole of this past year. We all had an object lesson on the harm that ethnic and religious intolerance compounded by rabid nationalism can do to an entire region. As so many times in history, it was the innocents that had to suffer most, individuals and nations alike. But we have also learned that determination and prompt action by the international community can make a difference. It is gratifying to note that trans-Atlantic solidarity again passed a crucial test in these past few months. In fact, if we are able to look into the future of the region with a reasonable degree of optimism, it is because we have seen concerted action at work. The Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe is such proof of a new, bold approach — a comprehensive, forward looking programme which proposes to deal with the entire region with specific action envisaged on three tiers: international security, economic development and democracy and institution-building. Romania has welcomed the plan from the very beginning, is part of it and seriously means to do its utmost to bring it to fruition. It is still early, but three preliminary observations may be in order. First, the actual participation of the countries in the region and of its immediate neighbours, such as Romania, is crucial for its success. Secondly, in focusing on the eventual integration of the region as a whole into the European and Atlantic structures, the sequence and content of the steps to be taken should realistically differentiate among the actual requirements and capabilities of each participating country. Thirdly, besides action at the governmental level, it is vital to secure the active involvement of business interests and the various organizational expressions of civil society in order to give substance and continuity to the whole process. Almost as an afterthought, I think I should also mention the need for a watchful eye on transparency, applying equally to political decision-making and to procurement procedures, including those practised by the agencies of the United Nations family. This is a legitimately sensitive subject for the countries of the region, particularly for the companies registered there, and ought to be duly considered as such. Romania's commitment to its strategic goals of European and Atlantic integration is steady and unwavering. It has passed the acid test of the Kosovo crisis. We are looking forward with confidence and hope to the major decisions which are due to be taken before the year's end and thereafter. The United Nations may not be perfect, but is perfectible and, after all, is the only world forum available. It is up to us to make it live and deliver. We, the Member States, have to deliver in order to live in a peaceful world. For this I hope and pray.  Let me take this opportunity to congratulate you, Sir, and your country, Namibia, on your election as President of the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. I am convinced that your experience and diplomatic skills will help this General Assembly to fulfil its important tasks. I would also like to thank the outgoing President, Mr. Didier Opertti of Uruguay, for the guidance he provided to the fifty-third session of the General Assembly. Let me also take this opportunity to warmly welcome the Republic of Nauru, the Republic of Kiribati and the Kingdom of Tonga, which have just joined the United Nations family. We are gathered here at the threshold not just of a new century but of a new millennium. It is appropriate, therefore, that we take advantage of this important occasion to reflect upon our situation in the world today. I speak here not of our situation as individuals or even as nations, but as a race. There are many signs of progress, and there are reasons for hope. However, the ultimate goal of world peace still seems elusive. The number of conflicts is significantly increasing. All over the world, millions of civilians are the victims of well-planned and systematic policies of killing, displacement, property destruction and intimidation. At the end of last year, the number of people worldwide who had been evicted from their homes stood at more than 21 million. East Timor and Kosovo are just two tragic examples of typical cases of contemporary armed conflicts. These are conflicts frequently take place within what the outside world recognizes as State borders, rather than between previously established States. Today, these types of wars amount to more than 90 per cent of those raging in the world. To make matters even worse, the number of civilians killed in these nominally “internal” wars is sharply increasing. A new kind of warfare is developing in which civilians are a primary strategic target. “Ethnic cleansing”, massacres and a horrifying variety of war crimes have become weapons for achieving political, economic and military goals. Ethnic, religious, national and social inequalities are frequently used as a smokescreen to hide the reality of massacre and conquest from the rest of the world. Furthermore, these inequalities are exploited by ruthless leaders, who use them as a tool to achieve very concrete aims. We have seen this phenomenon in almost all of the armed conflicts of recent times — in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Angola, Afghanistan and, most recently, in East Timor. How should the international community react to gross violations of human rights — violations that amount to threats to international peace and security? When and how can the international community seek to establish that a sovereign Government cannot, or does not want to, prevent a humanitarian catastrophe? When and by what criteria does it decide to use its instruments of enforcement? All United Nations Member States must think hard about these questions. We are grateful to the Secretary- General, who made, at the beginning of this debate, a significant contribution to such thinking. This turn-of-the-century crime wave cries out for new approaches and new ways of protecting vulnerable civilian populations. Armed conflicts have in fact become a problem for humankind, not just for the nation or nations directly concerned. The international community must innovate as it seeks to solve these pressing humanitarian problems. Our basic aim has to be human security, and here I mean physical and not just legal security. Slovenia welcomes 15 and participates in the initiatives of like-minded countries which are determined to give full meaning and specific practical expression to the concept of human security. In addition, as one answer to these challenges, new and more sophisticated concepts of peacekeeping operations are being developed. New methods of conflict prevention should also be explored. Preventive diplomacy, preventive deployment, preventive disarmament and post-conflict peace-building are the orders of the day. We have to ensure respect for human rights. We are firm in our belief that a determined commitment to promote and protect human rights has to be an underlying principle for the activities of the United Nations at the threshold of the new millennium. We have to create conditions for good governance, the rule of law, sustainable development and social justice. All of these tasks and many others require creative thinking and bold action. Solving these thorny problems is a prerequisite for peace and prosperity. This is also the way to prevent conditions which directly feed the flames of the conflicts that I have described. As an elected member of the Security Council, we are contributing to the maintenance of world peace and security. We are cooperating actively in the resolution of crises in South-Eastern Europe, Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Middle East. We believe that special importance should be attached to preventive action in situations posing a potential threat to international peace but which have not yet developed into armed conflict. Where situations have already escalated into armed conflict, no effort should be spared in finding a peaceful and timely resolution. We recognize the recent Security Council mission to Jakarta and Dili, in which Slovenia took part, as an innovative approach by the United Nations in dealing with crisis situations. Clearly, we welcome this. Finally, in post-conflict situations, such as Kosovo, continued coordinated action by the international community is necessary. It is only by working in concert that the United Nations, regional organizations and other international players can be effective. Only in this way can the difficult goals that have been set be achieved. These goals include bringing political and economic stabilization, democratization, the protection of human rights to the territory in question and establishing a functional legal system there. The changing nature of armed conflicts is also changing the role of the Security Council as it discharges its primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. We note the increased readiness and determination of regional organizations to take on their share of responsibility for the maintenance of regional peace and security. As many examples of fruitful collaboration attest, relations between the Security Council and these regional organizations are relations not of competition but rather of cooperation. We therefore commend the increased role of regional organizations under Chapter VIII of the Charter. Let me continue by presenting some elements that we must consider in any international response to the changing nature of armed conflicts. There is an unacceptably wide — even a growing — gap between the existing norms of international humanitarian and human rights law and common situations on the ground: human rights are frequently and openly violated. Determined and united action by the international community is needed to ensure that the existing norms of human rights are fully observed. Those who commit war crimes and crimes against humanity must be brought to justice. This is primarily the responsibility of States, which must act both individually through their national systems of justice, and collectively through an effective international justice system. Failure to act is no more and no less than an invitation to those capable of creating new, even more serious cycles of human tragedy to do just that. Whether there is to be human progress and development depends on the result of this confrontation between the rule of international law and those who stand to benefit directly from lawlessness. International indifference can only reward such people. In this regard, Slovenia attaches particular importance to the need to ensure more effective, comprehensive and efficient delivery of international justice. We are supportive of the two existing United Nations International Criminal Tribunals and of the ongoing process designed to give birth to a permanent International Criminal Court. To this end we have begun the legislative procedures necessary to ratify the Rome Statute. We are also contributing to efforts to complete the mandate of the Preparatory Commission for the International Criminal Court. Peacekeeping operations have in recent years become increasingly multidimensional: they encompass not only demanding military tasks but also a variety of other functions, such as civilian police activities, support for humanitarian assistance, practical disarmament measures, demobilization and integration of former combatants, and enhancing and monitoring human rights. 16 I should like to avail myself of this important occasion to affirm that Slovenia considers peacekeeping to be one of the key instruments available to the United Nations in discharging its responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. We have increased our participation in United Nations peacekeeping operations — and are committed to further increasing our participation in the near future — not only in terms of military personnel but also of civilian police and humanitarian aid workers. Disarmament efforts are a vital ingredient in the maintenance of international peace and security. The achievements of past years have been considerable, especially in such areas as chemical weapons and the comprehensive ban on nuclear weapon testing. However, there is a need to strengthen disarmament work, in the area not only of weapons of mass destruction but also in reducing flows of conventional arms. We hope that the Conference on Disarmament will be strengthened as an effective disarmament negotiation body. We also hope that the forthcoming Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) will represent a decisive step in the strengthening of the non-proliferation regime, and that progress will be made towards the objective of nuclear disarmament. I strongly believe that States Members of the United Nations and the international community as a whole must continue efforts to strengthen the prohibition of land mines, which is one specific front in protecting the physical security to which I referred. Last year our Government established an International Trust Fund for Demining and Mine Victim Assistance in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our aim is to help Bosnia and Herzegovina and other mine- affected countries in the region get rid of those lethal, hidden weapons, and to help those who have been wounded by them. In only the first year of its existence, the International Trust Fund has achieved many positive results in Bosnia; it is now extending its activities to Kosovo. There are many ways in which United Nations Member States can contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security. I would like to point out that Slovenia has joined a number of other nations in committing itself to tackling the security challenges of South-Eastern Europe. In establishing the Stability Pact, the international community has formed a framework intended to enable the concerted and sustained action necessary to stabilize the region. If it lives up to its early promise — and we intend to work hard to make sure that it does — the Stability Pact could be the key factor in bringing lasting peace, economic recovery and development to a very troubled neighbourhood. That such a wide range of States and international organizations — not least the United Nations — have committed themselves to helping in this very ambitious task gives us grounds for hope. In conclusion, I would like to return to the question with which I started: at the end of the millennium, how does the human race stand? Are there grounds for hope? Do we have the institutions and strategies needed to deal with our problems? If not, can we modify and redesign them? Even in the face of tragic conflicts, I believe that the answer to these questions must be “yes”.  It is my pleasure to congratulate the President on his election to the presidency of the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. The Barbados delegation shares the confidence expressed in his leadership and offers its full cooperation as he presides over our deliberations. Let me also warmly commend his predecessor, my friend and colleague, Mr. Didier Opertti, Foreign Minister of Uruguay, for his outstanding stewardship of the Assembly during the last year and for the vision and direction he gave to the ongoing work of the United Nations. We are delighted to welcome to our family of nations Tonga, Kiribati and Nauru, which are, like 25 Barbados, small island developing States and members of the Commonwealth and also of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States. We have long enjoyed good relations with our sister Pacific islands and wish to assure the new Member States of our continued friendship and solidarity. As we reflect on the twentieth century, we see a period remarkable for its contradictions. We see, on the one hand, astounding developments in many fields of human endeavour and, on the other, national and international conflicts, resulting in mass destruction of human life and infrastructure as well as the almost irreversible compromising of the ecological system. It is evident that if as nations we refuse to use our accumulated knowledge and experience, these contradictions will be carried well into the twenty-first century, making it even more difficult for us to face and overcome the challenges that lie ahead. One of the most serious of these challenges is that of the concept of globalization. The proponents of this ideology, which embraces trade liberalization and global governance, wish us to believe that it is a natural and logical development in international relations. It is not. In many of its important aspects it is an imposition. One has only to examine the bases of the clamour for trade liberalization to become aware of this. Trade liberalization assumes that small States compete with larger, stronger, more experienced countries on the same terms, or become mere satellites in a neo-colonial sphere. No nation, large or small, would willingly accept a satellite role. The international community must therefore come to recognize that within the context of trade liberalization free trade must import fair trade: trade in goods and services that have been produced and supplied under conditions respectful of the rights and dignity of the labour force; respectful of the preservation of the environment, and guaranteeing fair prices that provide returns to the supplier. Barbados and the Caribbean are confronting serious challenges in the effort to remain viable economies as traditional systems of cooperation between individual States and groups of nations are supplanted by the modern concepts of supranational interests and of globalization. To fully grasp the enormity of the adjustment process now facing Caribbean economies one must first appreciate that the Caribbean is perhaps the region which under the original post-colonial regime enjoyed the highest level of trade preferences with Europe. The World Trade Organization (WTO) has evolved as the dominant forum for the reform of the world trading system, but it is now evident that more democratic, participatory and transparent systems are needed to protect the interests of the smaller and more vulnerable members of that Organization. For surely the WTO cannot be meant to operate as a weapon of oppression in a new millennium. Surely it cannot be acceptable in a just world that the new trade ethic should derive solely from the rigid application of technical rules. Our new system is clearly seriously flawed when a dispute between two powerful transatlantic partners can be settled in a political vacuum which totally ignores the very real and disastrous consequences it will inevitably unleash on the economies of a fragile group of small States. This is certainly not globalization with a human face. And so it must be appreciated that the interdependence associated with globalization is a two-sided coin. Just as it is claimed that the benefits of free trade will be enjoyed by all, so too will we all suffer from the repercussions of failed economies, unable to cope with the impact of global trade liberalization. In the Caribbean region, we are haunted by the prospect of failed societies. Prime Minister Arthur of Barbados is particularly concerned, and has repeatedly warned of this possibility. Recently he made the following observation: “The economic decay in some economies has been so severe and corrosive as to set in train social and political disorder which, unchecked, will create a new Caribbean species of failed society'.” Indeed, we have already seen how the dislocation of some States, whether large, or small and marginalized, can impact negatively on the world's most developed economies. When the global system economically disenfranchises large numbers of the world's population, we should not be surprised that their hopeless circumstances might propel them towards the underworld of transnational crime. The unique nature and scope of vulnerabilities of small economies cannot be disputed. Barbados strongly reiterates the call for the recognition and adoption of vulnerability indices to assist in determining access to development financing. 26 The United Nations has a critical role to play as the defender of the right of all States, regardless of size or influence, to voice their concerns. As a forum for constructive consensus-building in an atmosphere of free and open dialogue the United Nations is even more relevant in an era characterized by complex negotiations and supranational interests dominated by a powerful few. As a community of nations we have one common factor that unquestionably unites us all. We share one Earth. The need to sustain the Earth's oceans, seas and the environment in general is undeniable. Indeed, this represents one of the greatest challenges to globalization. As a small island developing State, Barbados has nurtured a strong commitment to the implementation of practices that seek to ensure sustainable development in all aspects of our lives. The dedication of Barbados to the promotion of global sustainable development has been affirmed by our active participation in numerous international negotiations devoted to these issues. It is also demonstrated by our vigorous efforts to foster a shared vision to reverse the conventional wisdom of the past, which sacrificed environmental concerns in blind pursuit of that other ideology of economic growth. That shared vision will be as relevant in the new century as it was when the international community assembled in Barbados in 1994 for the first United Nations Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. Barbados is proud, as is the entire region, of the progress made by the small island developing States in fulfilling their commitments under the Barbados Programme of Action. At the national level, our Government has successfully forged greater links with civil society, including the private sector and labour, in the preparation of our environmental policies and action plans. The just-concluded special session to review and appraise the Barbados Programme of Action drew attention once more to the serious way in which the small island developing States have accepted their responsibility to integrate sustainable development practices into all aspects of their economic and social activity. We trust that the outcomes of this review will be fully implemented by the international community. The Caribbean Basin States will shortly be addressing in this forum their interest in working towards the international designation of the Caribbean Sea as a special area in the context of sustainable development. While we acknowledge that there is work still to be done to fully develop and implement this concept, we are also firmly convinced of the validity of our efforts, which we believe will ultimately lead to an integrated approach to the sustainable management of the Caribbean Sea and to the protection of its resources. Significant progress has been achieved over the last decade to bring peace and stability to the hemisphere of the Americas. Barbados subscribes to the philosophy of inclusion and constructive engagement and strongly believes that these must be our guiding principles as we strive to banish the last vestiges of the cold war from our region. Like other countries of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), we have developed a productive and cooperative relationship with our neighbour Cuba. We are convinced that Cuba has a significant role to play in our region, and we view its reintegration into hemispheric affairs as an urgent necessity. The continuation of the unilateral economic embargo against Cuba runs contrary to that spirit and is out of tune with the significant efforts of engagement being practiced by the remaining Governments of this hemisphere. We urge the suspension of this anachronistic measure. The world still awaits the peace that was promised when the Charter of the United Nations was adopted, and that was confidently reproclaimed at the end of the cold war. As a small democratic State, Barbados is ever- conscious of the peaceful climate which it has enjoyed since independence, in 1966. The political stability of Barbados and the Caribbean region, which has facilitated and fostered economic and political development, must never be taken for granted. It is a therefore a source of great distress to all peace-loving people that despite all the wonderful technological and scientific advances we have made over the centuries of this millennium, we are entering into the third millennium still carrying the baggage of ancient ethnic and tribal conflicts and of nationalistic rivalries. Today, crises that threaten the very existence of some States remain of deep concern to the international community. Barbados shares the profound anguish and suffering of the people of Kosovo and was appalled by the barbaric slaughter and the massive displacement of innocent people and the destabilizing effect this has had on neighbouring States. We support the role that the peacekeeping forces are playing in restoring order to Kosovo and providing the conditions for the return of the displaced population to their homes. 27 We wish to reiterate, together with the members of the Caribbean Community, that military intervention should be authorized by the United Nations Security Council. As a small, defenceless State, we are uncomfortable with the notion that intervention can take place without the prior authorization of the United Nations Security Council. We welcome the restoration of democracy and the return of civilian government to Nigeria and look forward to its renewed participation in the forthcoming Commonwealth Heads of Government conference. We hope that concerted action will continue among the parties involved to implement the Lomé Agreement and to bring a final peace to the suffering people of Sierra Leone. We are also heartened by the decision to mobilize a United Nations peacekeeping force into East Timor to end the abominable infringement of the basic human and civil rights of the people of that country. It is intolerable that in this so-called civilized age people can still find themselves persecuted and terrorized because they vote according to their conscience and in keeping with their vision of their own future. We are following what is taking place in the Middle East and hope that the conditions now exist to resolve all outstanding issues and so bring about a lasting peace throughout that region. The multifaceted areas of the sustainable development process demand a holistic approach. No longer can we service only the economy, the agricultural sector or any one sector at the expense of others. The value of building strong social institutions becomes more relevant when placed against the backdrop of globalization and its effects. Mechanisms must be put in place to ensure that social rights are safeguarded. Barbados places strong emphasis on social development. We are convinced that more needs to be done at the international level to ensure that this emphasis is maintained. It must be understood that economic development cannot be sustained unless a framework for overall development is in place. The alleviation of poverty and the promotion of gender equality, democracy and the rights of the child are issues that must be simultaneously addressed. The first World Summit for Social Development, which was held in 1995, gave an international focus to issues such as poverty eradication, full employment, social integration, gender equality and universal access to education. Barbados remains committed to the maintenance of a sustainable economic, political and social environment that will enable its citizens to achieve advanced social development. In furtherance of this objective, the Government of Barbados has created a Ministry of Social Transformation that will be the main focal point for all social and welfare services, with emphasis on poverty alleviation — indeed, eradication — and support for the disadvantaged and the disabled. At the international level, Barbados welcomes and supports the special session that will take place during the next year. This will provide an opportunity to review the actions that have been taken to give effect to the decisions adopted at the World Summit for Social Development. It is anticipated that this special session will lead to a renewal of international commitment to fulfil the objectives of the 1995 Copenhagen Summit. The matter takes on greater urgency when it is realized that, four years after the United Nations Summit, international and economic crises have led to a reversal of the gains made in social development. One of the main deterrents to sustainable development remains the illicit traffic in narcotics, which is a major concern to the Governments of the Americas. This transnational phenomenon is one of the more adverse consequences of globalization, which has brought in its wake the associated evils of money laundering, arms trafficking and violent crime. Geography places the Caribbean in the direct path of this phenomenon as a transit point of illegal drugs. It must be borne in mind that the illegal drug trade undermines democracy and can eventually lead to the destruction of the nation-State. This circumstance has compelled the Caribbean countries to give the highest priority to the development of cooperative efforts at drug interdiction, demand-reduction and the containment of transnational crime. Barbados currently serves as a focal point in these regional efforts, which enjoy the support of the European Union, the United States of America, Canada and the United Nations International Drug Control Programme. We will continue to play an active role in support of all coordinated efforts at the regional and international levels to combat the narco-trafficking threat and the dangers posed to the security of the small States of the Caribbean. 28 Barbados is firmly committed to the United Nations Organization. We have supported all constructive efforts at reform, but we insist that the Organization can remain viable only if all Members scrupulously honour their financial commitments. We also believe that a healthy balance must be maintained between the United Nations peacekeeping focus and its developmental mandate. In this regard, we continue to be concerned at the declining funding available to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and other United Nations agencies, resulting in a diminished capacity on their part to carry out their important mandate. We reiterate the importance of the work of these agencies in support of the national efforts of developing countries to achieve economic and social progress. We very much value the work of UNDP and of the United Nations system as a whole. As a net contributing country, Barbados is eager to enter into a new partnership with UNDP that can make a significant contribution to our efforts to achieve the next critical phase of our development, the transition to a globalized economy. In appreciation of the United Nations contribution over the years, the Government of Barbados has agreed to construct a permanent home for all United Nations offices located in Bridgetown and servicing the Eastern Caribbean. To this end, we expect to commence shortly the construction of the United Nations common premises in Bridgetown. The new millennium brings with it a sense of giddy expectation, a passion for renewal and the tendency to believe that things will miraculously change for the better overnight. We must not delude ourselves into thinking that the fifty-fifth, the fifty-sixth or even the sixtieth session of the General Assembly will take place in an environment any less complex and challenging than our gathering here today. What we do know is that we may not be expected to complete the task, but then, neither are we at liberty to abstain from it.The Bahamas shares the confidence that the international community has placed in you, Sir, as the envoy of Namibia and of the continent of Africa to preside over this fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly, the last in this twentieth century. My delegation congratulates you and pledges its full support as you guide our deliberations at this critical juncture. My delegation’s congratulations are also extended to Mr. Didier Opertti, who represented our Latin American and Caribbean region as President of the fifty-third session. My delegation wishes to commend the Secretary- General of the United Nations for his leadership of this highly complex Organization on which rest the hopes and aspirations of the world’s peoples and which is our best prospect for a stable world. I am pleased on this occasion to warmly welcome the Kingdom of Tonga, the Republic of Kiribati and the Republic of Nauru, the United Nations newest Member States, to this community of nations. These countries add to the growing number of small island developing States in the United Nations and underscore the need for the Organization to increase its efforts in support of this important constituency. The United Nations was created with a mandate to work collectively for a better world, and since its inception it has contributed to positive developments in the global arena. However, significant challenges persist. The agenda of the fifty-fourth session shows that even as some progress has been made, we will continue at this session to grapple with many of the thorny issues that have preoccupied the international community over the decades. At the same time, new challenges will have to be addressed. Recent events in Europe and elsewhere in the world, spawned by internal conflict, have raised questions as to whether States fractured by ethnic, religious and other strife could build national identities to span these divides. At the same time, they remind us that the greatest care must be taken in making exceptions to the general principle of non-intervention in the internal affairs of other States. The Bahamas believes that this principle remains an important safeguard for international peace and security. The Bahamas accepts that internal conflicts create situations in which the Security Council should act, in accordance with the Charter. However, we believe that whenever the United Nations responds to internal conflicts and threats to regional stability, it must do so with one and the same degree of urgency, with adequate resources and with consistency. It is with these considerations in mind that the Bahamas supports United Nations efforts to bring peace and stability to areas of conflict in all regions of the world. Recent United Nations peace initiatives give us hope that long-standing and seemingly intractable problems may have solutions. Indeed, the Bahamas is encouraged by developments in the Middle East, particularly the signing this month of the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum. We see these developments as having the potential to end decades of conflict in that troubled region. If enlightened self-interest were to prevail in long-standing conflicts elsewhere in Africa, Asia and Latin America, they too could be resolved. Global attention could then be turned towards development and human betterment, as envisaged in the Charter. Globalization and trade liberalization are gaining currency as means of promoting accelerated development and opening opportunities to bridge the gap between rich 15 and poor. However, concerns are being expressed that the rules of the World Trade Organization (WTO) and its dispute settlement mechanisms put the interests of the strong ahead of the interests of the weak. Indeed, the anticipated benefits of free trade give little comfort to Caribbean States and farmers dependent as they are on bananas for their foreign exchange earnings and their very livelihood. Where preferential treatment is removed before Caribbean countries can restructure their economies, severe hardship results. We therefore believe that all concerned must make an effort to find a solution to the banana problem. We see the new round of WTO negotiations scheduled to begin in Seattle in November as an invaluable opportunity for developing countries to have their concerns incorporated into the discussions. The Bahamas is currently giving consideration to acquiring observer status in the WTO. It fully intends to follow the multilateral negotiating process and to bring its concerns to the table, particularly in the areas of trade in services and differential treatment for small economies. Growth in the economy of the Bahamas is in part attributable to the services it offers as an offshore financial centre. The Bahamas is concerned about the action taken within the international community to inhibit or prevent the use of offshore centres and to label them, impertinently, as “harmful” tax jurisdictions. Furthermore, there is a tendency to treat all offshore jurisdictions as a homogenous group, which they are most definitely not. The Bahamas had the opportunity to address the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development on harmful tax practices in August this year in Paris. We emphasized there that strict regulations and appropriate legislation, specifically formulated to counter money laundering and other illegal activities, govern financial institutions in the Bahamas. The Bahamas is committed to working with all concerned to address these and related issues. In May this year, it was reported to our Parliament that the economy of the Bahamas was experiencing a period of dynamism. In 1998, our economy grew some 3 per cent, the unemployment rate was 7.8 per cent and net foreign investment inflows amounted to $491 million. But on 14 September 1999, hurricane Floyd struck the Bahamas, and the entire archipelago felt its impact. Significant damage was done to the environment, infrastructure and property. The full implications for the economy of our country of the relief, recovery and reconstruction efforts have yet to be calculated. What happened in the Bahamas underscores the continuing validity of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, adopted in 1994. We cannot help but emphasize — as so many States did at the recently concluded twenty-second special session — how imperative it therefore remains for the Barbados Programme of Action to be implemented. It is in this context that we urge renewed commitment on the part of all to the search for consensus on the draft resolution on the recognition of the Caribbean Sea as a special area in the context of sustainable development. Together with our Caribbean Community sister States, the Bahamas has made known our concern regarding the transhipment of nuclear and hazardous waste through the Caribbean Sea. Yet these shipments continue. We reiterate our wish to see these shipments stopped: they constitute the gravest risk to the fragility of our marine environment and our economies. The significant number of reviews issued recently or expected in the coming months, of the outcomes of United Nations Conferences on small island developing States, population and development, social development and women, attest to the efforts of the United Nations to meet its economic and social obligations under the Charter. The Bahamas confidently expects that these reviews will all confirm that renewed political will and action are required to meet the goals we set, at a high level, in Barbados, Cairo, Copenhagen and Beijing. Let me comment briefly on our continuing efforts to maintain the momentum for gender equality, a subject which will be taken up in the five-year Beijing review. Women worldwide continue to break through glass ceilings. In the Bahamas, for example, women have made significant strides in Parliament, the judiciary, public service and business and service organizations. However, the Bahamas is cognizant that there are still serious challenges to women’s equality. We are particularly concerned about the traffic in human beings, predominantly women and children. The Bahamas intends to continue its active support, both nationally and internationally, for efforts to help women realize their legal rights, attain economic empowerment and rise above poverty. It is our hope, therefore, that the Beijing review will result in strategies to further engage the international community in support of the world’s women. 16 The Bahamas supports the growing consensus on human rights, which focuses on principles and values including democracy, good governance and the rule of law. We also believe that United Nations Member States should honour the human rights commitments they have made. The Republic of Haiti is a fledgling democracy courageously facing significant political, economic and social challenges. These myriad challenges have resulted in a sustained influx of illegal immigration from Haiti into the Bahamas. Together with other illegal immigration, particularly from other countries in the Caribbean region, illegal Haitian immigration continues to be a burden to the socio-economic structures of the Bahamas. We therefore have a vested interest in the stabilization of Haiti’s democratic institutions and economy. The Bahamas participated in a Caribbean Community mission to Haiti in July of this year; that mission reviewed with the Haitian Government its preparedness for elections. In so doing, we signalled our support for the process of free and fair elections in Haiti. We also fully support the efforts of the Economic and Social Council and of the General Assembly for Haiti’s reconstruction and for the strengthening and furtherance of its democracy. Last year, at the twentieth special session of the General Assembly, on the world drug problem, the international community adopted a new and detailed programme of measures to enhance the effectiveness of national, regional and international drug control activities. Member States must now implement the programme, particularly by meeting the targets set in the special session’s concluding documents. For the United Nations International Drug Control Programme to carry out its mandate, adequate resources must be allocated to it. Drug trafficking into and through the Bahamas is a major threat to our socio-economic development. A significant proportion of the national budget continues to be spent on drug law enforcement. I wish to emphasize that even though we do so at the expense of vital national programmes, the Bahamas will not relent in its efforts to overcome the serious challenges posed by drug trafficking and related criminality. We are particularly concerned about the traffic in illicit firearms, which appears to be working in tandem with the drug trade. Further, with the increase in firearms comes an increase in violent crime committed with those firearms. We continue to urge greater efforts to control the illicit manufacture of and trafficking in firearms, including the ratification and implementation of relevant international conventions. The failure to achieve general and complete disarmament means that serious threats to international peace and security persist. The production and stockpiling of chemical, biological and other weapons of mass destruction exacerbate this situation. The Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their Destruction, to which the Bahamas is a party, has been a key success in recent disarmament initiatives. The Convention demonstrates what can be achieved when there is unity of purpose in the field of disarmament. In a constantly changing global environment, United Nations reform must continue to be a priority to ensure that the Organization remains relevant to the role envisaged for it under the Charter. Negotiations on the multifaceted objective of Security Council reform have moved at a frustratingly slow pace. It is clear that the Council must be reformed, and that one of the main objectives must be its enlargement. This has the support of the Bahamas. However, in determining criteria for expanded membership of the Council, consideration must be given to a mechanism for all Members to enjoy the privilege of serving thereon. The Bahamas welcomes the General Assembly’s decision to convene a millennium summit at the beginning of the Millennium Assembly. We share the view that the summit should not be just a commemoration, but should also be substantive. The Bahamas wishes to reflect briefly on what the summit’s approach might include. We see the summit not as a forum for a restatement of lofty ideals or of the practical initiatives that were the outcomes of past international conferences. The millennium summit must be used as a catalyst that would build, especially, on the outcomes of those conferences to produce a revitalized international agenda for the twenty-first century. That agenda should take into account the accomplishments of the United Nations system as a whole in the areas of economic and social development as well as peace and security, and it should be realistic. From this last perspective, it is the continued position of the Bahamas that the question of refugees, for example, should not continue to be divorced from the broader question of illegal migration. Under the revitalized agenda, the United Nations would have improved partnerships with other regional and international organizations. Such partnerships with organizations including the Commonwealth, the Organization of American States and the Caribbean 17 Community would further the coordination of solutions to problems of a global nature. The United Nations cannot do what we ask of it unless it is provided with the necessary resources. The common values we share, and our determination to find solutions to the world’s problems, should give us the political will to build on what the United Nations has accomplished to date. Thus, the Organization must be assured of funding on a reliable, predictable and timely basis to carry out the mandates entrusted to it by its Member States. The broad range of problems and issues on the United Nations agenda cannot be solved without investment in multilateralism and partnerships. It is our responsibility to make the United Nations a highly effective organization fully capable of responding to the security, political, economic and social challenges of the twenty-first century. The Bahamas pledges its full commitment to play its part in United Nations efforts to secure a better future for all.  It is a distinct pleasure to address the Assembly with a distinguished son of Africa and a veteran freedom fighter in the presidency. His election to preside over this last session of the closing millennium is a fitting tribute to his outstanding qualities. I congratulate him warmly and assure him of the total support and cooperation of my delegation. We also thank His Excellency Mr. Opertti for the excellent manner in which he presided over the work of the fifty-third session. The Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, whose strong commitment to the cause of the United Nations needs hardly be emphasized, has continued to lead the Organization with vision, vigour and great dedication. Mauritius welcomes very warmly the admission of the Kingdom of Tonga, the Republic of Kiribati and the Republic of Nauru to the United Nations. The curtain will soon fall on our eventful twentieth century, a century of tremendous achievements by mankind. The wide world has been reduced to a global village through progress in the field of science and technology during this century. The political map of the world has undergone tremendous transformation. It is hardly recognizable from what it used to be at this century's outset. Today, our world is made of independent nations, with peoples themselves in charge of their destinies. On the other hand, we did experience the horrors of wars in the first half of the century but decided never to let it happen again. We created the United Nations in the aftermath of the Second World War as a forum for all nations to carry forward together a common pledge for lasting world peace and promote development and progress for all humanity. During this century man has paradoxically also created weapons of mass destruction that threaten his very existence. Disarmament, including nuclear disarmament, remains a major preoccupation for all of us as we step into the new millennium. The United Nations, representing the collective conscience of nations, has endeavoured to serve humanity and the cause of peace and development. The United Nations is the sole mechanism through which universal peace can be secured. We unanimously agree also that reforms to the Charter of the United Nations are necessary — indeed, overdue — as in its present form it does not reflect the tremendous changes the world has undergone since the Organization was founded half a century ago. It is now almost six years since the General Assembly established the Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council and Other Matters Related to the Security Council. Progress has been slow and has taken place on a limited set of issues only. What is lacking for the process to move forward is political will on the part of some members. The fact is that the Security Council in its present form is neither adequately representative nor sufficiently transparent in its work for its decisions to be universally accepted. Mauritius supports the proposals of the Non-Aligned Movement and of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) on the reform of the Security Council. We appeal to all Members of the United Nations to work together constructively and advance the much needed reform process expeditiously. While the international community has largely been successful in averting global wars, armed conflicts have continued to endanger national, regional and international peace. In particular, the African continent has continued to be afflicted with conflicts, the worst being the crisis in the Democratic Republic of Congo and the continued civil war in Angola. However, the international community should take comfort in the fact that the leaders on the African continent have spared no efforts to find solutions and restore peace in the countries and areas in question. Through tireless and extensive efforts of African leaders, the OAU and the United Nations, and all the parties concerned in the conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo, have signed the Lusaka Agreement in order to 8 restore peace and stability in the country. One of the fundamental aspects of the Agreement is the deployment of a United Nations peacekeeping force, with the task of ensuring that all parties respect the terms of the Lusaka Agreement. We deplore the fact that the United Nations peacekeeping force has still not assumed its crucial responsibility in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. We call upon the Security Council to give due priority to this matter so that a peacekeeping force is dispatched expeditiously, as delay to do so may imperil the implementation of the Agreement. The rebellion in Angola continues because of arms supplies from outside to the forces of destabilization. The Security Council is fully apprised of this and confident that those guilty of breaking the embargo on arms supply to UNITA will be identified and held responsible. The people of Angola have indeed suffered too long. We therefore appeal to all nations to take necessary steps to ensure that unscrupulous elements do not channel weapons to the forces of rebellion in Angola out of their greed of monetary windfalls. The international community needs to intensify its efforts to end the rebellion in Angola. The armed conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea ended with the signing recently of an agreement with the help of the OAU and several African leaders and friendly countries. We hope that the spirit in which the two countries have agreed to end their differences will continue and that lasting peace will return to the region. We are also heartened by the fact that an agreement has been signed between the parties concerned to end the internal strife in Sierra Leone. We are confident that peace and stability will now return to Sierra Leone. In the Comoros, forces of destabilization have continued to thwart the return to normalcy. Through tireless efforts by the OAU and countries of the region, a conference of all the Comoros parties concerned was held earlier this year in Madagascar with a view to reaching an agreement under which peace and stability would return to the Comoros and territorial integrity and sovereignty would be maintained. Unfortunately, the military coup derailed the whole process. We therefore call for the establishment of democratic rule in the Comoros so that the agreement reached at the Antananarivo conference can be fully implemented. The Kosovo conflict has distressed us all. We have witnessed the horrors of ethnic cleansing, massive disruption of the life of a people and terrible destruction inflicted on a country. We must all remember many messages from the events in Kosovo. Humanity will not sit idly by when people are flagrantly subjected to genocide for reason of ethnic bigotry or political expediency. Quick-fix military action to resolve deep-rooted problems is not necessarily the best option. The United Nations remains the most appropriate mechanism for addressing issues that relate to maintenance of international peace and security. Mauritius is deeply distressed by the violence in East Timor, the loss of so many innocent lives and the terrible sufferings inflicted on the Timorese people in the aftermath of the recent referendum. We welcome the action undertaken by the United Nations to send a peacekeeping force to restore peace and security on the island. The verdict of the referendum must be respected by the Indonesian Government and all parties concerned. In the Middle East, the determination shown by the new Prime Minister of Israel, Mr. Ehud Barak, to move the peace process forward, together with President Arafat, is most encouraging not only to the parties concerned in the region but also to the international community as a whole. This moment of great optimism must be seized in order to work out a comprehensive and just settlement that will bring lasting peace and stability to the region. In 1996 our delegation, led by the Prime Minister of Mauritius, The Honourable Navinchandra Ramgoolam, drew special attention to the situation in Fiji. We are pleased that the new constitutional process under which general elections were recently held has removed the iniquities which were written into that nation's Constitution before. We welcome this change and congratulate the people of Fiji on their courage and determination to bring the change in a democratic and peaceful manner. (spoke in French) Conflicts and wars, even after they have ended, invariably leave serious humanitarian situations behind them. The humanitarian crises in Africa seem of little interest to the cameras of international television networks. There are more than 12 million people who need urgent humanitarian assistance in Africa. The humanitarian agencies have received only $352 million although their needs for Africa in 1999 are in the order of $796 million. Peacemaking efforts must be supported by effective humanitarian aid, especially for refugees. The host 9 countries, already faced with their own difficulties, cannot take on this heavy burden. To give lasting peace a real chance, it is also necessary to support the return of refugees so as to make the stabilization of society possible. A special financing effort on the part of the international community is necessary to that end. (spoke in English) Respect for human rights is of primordial importance for the prevention of conflicts and for the maintenance of durable peace. We believe that all countries should make strict adherence to the human rights instruments of the United Nations a matter of national priority. We in Mauritius always place human rights high on our national and international agenda. Mauritius was honoured to host the First OAU ministerial conference on human rights, held earlier this year in the context of the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The conference reviewed the human rights situation in Africa and adopted a declaration and plan of action which aim at strengthening the promotion and protection of human rights. We have witnessed gross violations of human rights, particularly under military regimes. In this regard, the decision at the recent OAU summit in Algiers to exclude from that organization those leaders who assume power in the continent through military coups is an important step that will help the cause of democracy and human rights. Mauritius has welcomed the International Criminal Court and was amongst the first to ratify the Statute establishing it. We look forward to an early conclusion of the work of our experts who are currently engaged in finalizing the rules to enable the International Criminal Court to commence its work. The easy availability of light and small-calibre weapons has given rise to numerous conflicts, particularly in Africa. These small arms, besides exacerbating conflicts, give rise to social disruption, insecurity, instability, violence and crime. In view of the magnitude of the problem, the OAU summit in Algiers last July decided to convene a regional conference to address the issue fully. We urge the international community to take measures to control the flow of small arms. Disarmament is essential for international peace. It is regrettable that the threat of nuclear holocaust will accompany humanity into the new millennium because of the international community's failure to work out a regime for the total elimination of nuclear weapons. Under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty we have taken important steps on the issue of nuclear disarmament, but these alone cannot eliminate the threat of nuclear weapons. Mauritius continues to be firmly of the belief that the best way for the international community to address the nuclear disarmament issue effectively is to establish a clear timetable for nuclear- weapon Powers to commit themselves to dismantle all nuclear weapons and for all nations to commit themselves to not develop such weapons in the future. So far we have adopted half-way measures only; it is time for a bold step to be taken that would eliminate nuclear weapons once and for all. Chemical weapons, as weapons of mass destruction, can inflict untold miseries on their victims. The Convention on Chemical Weapons — a very significant achievement — must be adhered to by all nations, particularly countries that have chemical weapons in their possession. The lives of many people around the world, in Africa in particular, continue to be affected by landmines. We believe it is the responsibility of all nations to address this problem collectively. We appeal to those countries that have not yet acceded to the Ottawa Convention on anti-personnel mines to do so and also to contribute financially to the efforts to remove all landmines. Peace, security and development are indivisible and mutually reinforcing. As we stand at the threshold of the twenty-first century we have a historic opportunity to create a long-term visionary strategy for the sustainable development of all countries of the world, in particular African States, and thus promote international peace and security. This is extremely important if we really want to avoid the marginalization in the wake of the irreversible process of globalization and unbridled liberalization. It is increasingly being realized that market forces alone cannot resolve the problems of poverty, deprivation and marginalization, particularly in Africa, which comprises the largest number of least-developed countries. The United Nations system, in our view, has an important role to play in this respect as there is a crying need for coherence in the formulation and implementation of policies in the trade, finance and social sectors. 10 It is true that globalization brings both challenges and opportunities, but to many developing countries the challenges are proving overwhelming. But there does not seem to be any alternative, in a world characterized by the “pensée unique”, to making the necessary adjustments to join a fast globalizing world economy. Higher levels of investment; technology transfer; and institutional, human resource and infrastructure capacity-building, will be required especially for African countries, if they are to make the necessary transition. The developed world and the major financial and trading organizations must be not only cognizant of the situation but also responsive to the constraints on and needs of the developing world in general and the least-developed countries and vulnerable small island developing States in particular. The heavy debt burden, the declining level of official development assistance — which currently stands at 0.22 per cent of gross domestic product compared to the target of 0.7 per cent — and insignificant private investment flows into Africa do not allow many African countries to implement successfully the necessary adjustment programmes to compete effectively in the world market. Only decisive action to resolve the debt problem can provide the necessary impetus. Although we recognize that the Cologne Summit initiative represents an improvement over the original Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative, we believe that the unsustainable debt of Africa — which contains 33 of the 41 HIPC countries — should be written off, for only then can those countries embark on the path of sustainable growth and development. In that connection, we welcome the recently announced plan to cancel $27 billion of debt owed by the poorest countries to allow them to use those resources to finance education and health, which are important in dealing with the problem of poverty. We also commend the World Bank for establishing the $400 million Infrastructure Investment Fund, whose advisory board will be headed by Mr. Nelson Mandela, former President of South Africa. Capacity-building in all sectors of the economy is important if developing countries are to benefit from the opportunities arising from globalization and trade liberalization. But in view of the lack of a level playing field and the inherent obstacles facing African, Caribbean and Pacific countries, it is imperative for them to continue to benefit from trade preferences in the European Union under the successor to the fourth ACP-CEE Convention of Lomé for a sufficiently long transitional period before they implement any alternative trade arrangement. The euphoria created following the signing of the Marrakesh agreement in 1994 after the conclusion of the Uruguay Round has been short-lived; many developing countries today recognize that they are overburdened with World Trade Organization (WTO) commitments and obligations. There is indeed a growing recognition that implementation of these commitments is simply beyond their capacity, or rather that there is a limit to trade liberalization and deregulation. It is, therefore, important to allow developing countries flexibility within the world trading system to implement policies in harmony with their sustainable development needs. The provisions on special and differential treatment in all areas covered by WTO agreements should be fully and effectively implemented. In this regard, it is also crucial that the multilateral trading system should facilitate the process of regional integration, because for many countries regional integration is an important step towards their integration into the global economy. We welcome and support the recent OAU decision to accelerate implementation of the 1991 Abuja Treaty for the establishment of an African Economic Community. This process could be facilitated by effective implementation of the United States of America-Africa Blueprint adopted in March 1999 and more importantly, of the Africa Growth and Opportunity Act. We urge the United States to ensure early passage of this long-standing Bill with its original provisions on textiles and clothing. Two days ago, I had the opportunity in my address to the recent Assembly special session to highlight both the inherent constraints on small island developing countries and their development needs. The special session gave us an opportunity to review the implementation of the Barbados Declaration and Programme of Action for the sustainable development of small island developing States (SIDS): we must take the process further to embrace other issues, such as concessional loans and trade preferences for SIDS. I reiterate my appeal to the international community to give special attention to the plight of SIDS, in terms both of providing financial resources, and of encouraging foreign direct investment, and also in the context of the negotiations for the third WTO Ministerial Conference, in Seattle. We must ensure that the Conference, which is to be held later this year, addresses the marginalization of small economies and the problems of developing countries that are net importers of food by adopting specific and practical measures. We must also see to it that the Seattle Round of multilateral trade negotiations is a “development round” that puts the issue of development firmly on the international agenda. The WTO negotiations in Seattle should be broad- based and should provide a balanced outcome from which all countries will benefit. In this connection, it should be emphasized that agricultural trade is of vital importance to a number of developing countries, in particular to small economies including small and vulnerable island developing States. In the agricultural trade negotiations we should give just as much importance to non-trade issues such as food security, environmental protection and the viability of rural populations. These are vital issues for Mauritius, and for many other SIDS and small economics and small economies. And that is why we are emphasizing the multifunctionality of agriculture. Planting sugar cane, which is the only crop suitable to our difficult terrains, and which is resistant to adverse climatic conditions like cyclones and droughts, also contributes to environmental protection by providing a renewable source of energy. Sugar exports earnings assure food security. Many small island developing countries are in the same situation as Mauritius. We would therefore urge that this important dimension be fully taken into account in the WTO negotiations on agriculture. Economic growth by itself does not bring about sustainable socio-economic development. Social development should continue to be given due consideration by our Organization. We therefore welcome the follow-up conferences on social development and on women, which will be organized next year. For the majority of small States, the United Nations continues to be the main bulwark against infringements on their sovereignty and territorial integrity. We have consistently drawn the attention of the Assembly to the issue of the Chagos Archipelago, which was detached from Mauritius by the former colonial Power prior to our independence in 1968, and also to the plight of over 2000 people who were forced to leave the land of their birth, where they had lived for generations, for resettlement in Mauritius. This was done in total disregard of the United Nations declaration embodied in resolution 1514 (XV), of 14 December 1960, and resolution 2066 (XX), of 16 December 1965, which prohibit the dismemberment of colonial Territories prior to independence. Mauritius has repeatedly asked for the return of the Chagos Archipelago, including Diego Garcia, on which a United States military base has been built, and thereby the restoration of its territorial integrity. The over 2,000 displaced Ilois people have been facing tremendous difficulties in adapting in mainland Mauritius, in spite of all the efforts that Mauritius has made to assist them in this process. So far the issue has been discussed within the framework of our friendly relations with the United Kingdom, with a view to arriving at an acceptable solution. Unfortunately, there has not been significant progress. The United Kingdom has been maintaining that the Chagos Archipelago will be returned to Mauritius only when it is no longer required for defence purposes by the West. While we continue the dialogue for an early resolution of the issue on a bilateral basis, we urge the United Kingdom in the meantime to allow the displaced inhabitants to return to the Chagos Archipelago. At the dawn of the new millennium, when we so strongly uphold universal recognition of and respect for fundamental human rights, the inhabitants of Chagos should not continue to be denied the right to return to the Chagos Archipelago. The restoration of the territorial integrity of the State of Mauritius will not be complete without the return of Tromelin. We therefore call upon France to resume constructive discussions with us on the question of Tromelin. This is the last session of the General Assembly for this century. When we meet next year it will be a new millennium. The question that comes to our minds is whether we want to come back next year and discuss the same issues and the same problems. Should we not, rather, make a pledge here and now that by the time we meet next year we will have taken the necessary measures that will put an end to regional and ethnic problems and to the abuse of human rights, and will instead create the necessary environment to enable the human race to enjoy basic freedom and basic rights in peace and prosperity? Mauritius is ready to make such a pledge. 12  